Title: Capital of Culture Esch? This is what the jury gets to see
DATE: 9.11.2017
The tension is rising: Will Esch and the Southern Region be the European Capital of Culture in 2022? The international jury will make its decision on Friday. One day before, the jurors visit the cultural sites in the region.
Where once Luxembourg's wealth was created, today fallow industrial sites and shut-down blast furnaces offer countless opportunities for creative use. The south of Luxembourg stands in contrast to the rich capital and offers its own potential to give the country a new face.
"Top Secret" - but with a peephole
Away from the image of the banks and the tax haven - towards art, creativity and diversity. The artistic director of Esch 2022, Janina Stroetgen, and the "coordinateur général", Andreas Wagner, together with their committed network of artists and volunteers, want to convince the jury of this potential today. In order to win over the three-member jury, consisting of the Luxembourg art expert Robert Philippart, the Czech sound and media artist Jiri Suchanek, and the representative of the Brussels government Alain Hutchinson, who is responsible for the relationship between national and international organisations, the team has put together a bus tour to the highlights in the southern region. The tour with the jury, which takes place today, is top secret. But the Tageblatt had the opportunity to be present at the dress rehearsal on Tuesday.
Old and beautiful
The meeting point was "The Seven Hotel" on the Escher Galgenberg. Project managers, volunteers and helpers gathered with consultants Nadja Grizzo and Neil Peterson, who specialize in the field of Capitals of Culture. The two formed a "fake jury" to make valuable suggestions and ideas for improvement before the decisive day. After Escher's still-mayor Vera Spautz and the future mayor Georges Mischo had rehearsed their welcome speeches, the first surprise was already waiting outside the door: the trip was not to be made by just any bus, but by a vintage Tetra S6, built in 1956.
Beautiful and loud
On the first stretch from Galgenberg to Escher Brillplatz the oldtimer unfortunately turned out to be not only extravagant and beautiful, but also extremely loud. The noise of the vehicle made it difficult for the jury imitators to follow the speaker. But that's why there are dress rehearsals: A microphone was ordered.In total, the bus stops at twelve locations, each stop is connected with a meeting of the respective responsible persons and a short guided tour. After the first stop at Brillplatz, the jury will first be guided on foot through the city of Esch. The walk through Alzettestraße is the perfect opportunity to address the first project: "Esch-sans-Alzette". A first idea in the context of the cultural year, which thematizes the hidden river in the middle of the city. After the jury has been given an insight into the rehearsals of the current play "Scenes from a Marriage" at the Esch Theatre, the tour continues towards the Brill School.
Public and private space
Here the children show a small performance that they prepared together with the artist Mischa Kuball. Kuball designed the cover of the "Bid Book", the application catalogue for ECoC 2022 ("European Capital of Culture 2022"). The children stand on individual posters, which are divided into the categories "public space" and "private space". In these they jump around wildly, showing how both areas of life "remix", according to the Esch-2022 motto.
The tour continues to Düdelingen to the industrial hall Hall Fondouq, where the artists of "DKollektiv" are already active and offer workshops. The mayor of Duedelingen, Dan Biancalana, is sure: "Esch as European Capital of Culture 2022 is important to strengthen the identity of the southern region". This was lost to a large extent after the decline of the steel industry. Art, culture and creativity have the potential to contribute to exactly this new identity.
Platform Differdingen
The "1535 Creative Hub" in Differdingen, where over 500 creative people now work in a former industrial building, is also on the agenda. This place is one of the most important linchpins for ECoC 2022, because it brings artists together and offers a platform for exchange. "Many people think innovation is to create something new. But no, innovation means taking two old things and mixing them together in a new way", Tania Brugnoni, head of 1535°, explains to the test jury.
After lunch at the "Schraeinerei" restaurant and a short break, the route continues across the border into France. Because the steel industry reached as far as Villerupt.
Culture is also very important here. At the moment the 40th edition of the "Festival du film italien de Villerupt" takes place in the town hall. The Italian community has been strongly represented there since the industrialisation.
Melting pot Belval
Back in Luxembourg, the tour continues to the most visually exciting place to visit: Belval. Here, where the remains of times gone by are still clearly visible, the jury discovers the Rockhal, the Massenoire building and the University of Luxembourg. All important elements of the potential Capital of Culture. After a stroll around the campus, the various projects of the "Centre for Contemporary and Digital History" are presented here, including a video walk from Esch to Belval, which is intended to give historical impressions of the smelting workers.
The last stop for the jury will be the Kulturfabrik. After the directors Serge Basso de March and René Penning have introduced the Kufa, a public "get-together" will take place here.
On Thursday from 5 pm everyone is invited to join in and get to know the jury members as well as Janina Stroetgen, Andreas Wagner and their team.
Title: A look at Luxembourg's school canteens: Enjoyment between genitive and history
DATE: 2.10.2014
Granted, school canteens are not gourmet temples. But they are better than their reputation. At least that's true of the Luxembourg school cafeterias. We visited the "Forum" on campus Geesseknaeppchen - and asked the students for a little restaurant review.(mg/DL) Granted. School canteens are not gourmet temples. Although? They are not awarded with stars. But they're better than their reputation. They're better than their reputation. At least, that's true of Luxembourg school canteens. We visited the "Forum" on campus Geesseknaeppchen - and asked the students for a little restaurant review.
More than 10.000 students and teachers of secondary education have been fed daily since the beginning of school in the facilities run by Restopolis. For Monique Ludovicy, head of Restopolis, it is a matter of the heart.
Before becoming the guardian of good culinary taste, she was Chief Financial Officer at the Luxembourg Post Office. That was ten years ago. Since then, the school canteens have been on the rise. This may be due to changes in the family or the new school rhythms with lunch breaks that hardly leave any time to go home. What is certain is that the modern school restaurants are no longer comparable to the first school canteens that were built in the 1960s.
A quarter of all pupils go to the canteen
Since 2004, the number of canteen guests has been growing by eight percent annually, while the number of pupils in the schools has grown by only two percent each year. Today a quarter of all pupils eat in the canteen. This figure is expected to rise to 35 percent by 2018. The largest restaurant is located in the Forum of the Geesseknaeppchen campus in Luxembourg City (1700 menus sold per day). One of the smallest structures is in Ediff in Clervaux (20 menus sold per day). The oldest structure is in Echternach, the youngest in Junglinster.
How is it that every year more and more pupils take up the offer of the school restaurant? "We do it like mother and father, what doesn't taste good is no longer on the menu", says Monique Ludovicy. What goes on the table not only tastes good, it's also healthy and balanced, she adds: "We want to know what's in the food and where it comes from, otherwise it won't get on the plate. According to this, ready meals and spice mixes are taboo. Not to mention analog cheese and ham substitutes. Quality is the top priority at Restopolis. Down to the smallest detail.
No paternalism
Nevertheless, there is no fundamentalism here. No paternalism. It's more a mixture of good taste and common sense. The responsible person from Restopolis says that the students would refuse anything else. Her success proves her right.
Restopolis receives five million euros from the state as an endowment for operating costs. On top of that comes the income from the canteens. The former head of finance at Swiss Post knows how to budget with this. In any case, good taste is not a question of money.
Title: New Bachelor / First medical students in Luxembourg to start in autumn
DATE: 6.4.2020
The Corona pandemic has clearly shown this. Luxembourg is heavily dependent on foreign countries for its health care. With a new course of studies for future doctors, the University of Luxembourg now wants to remedy this. Modern approaches are also required in other scientific fields.
In the fight against the current crisis, the University of Luxembourg stands its ground. The doctors from its ranks, above all virologists, but also logisticians, mathematicians and behavioural researchers, are active in the various working groups set up by the government to deal with the pandemic. Concrete research projects have also already started. These range from the "Con Vince" study, coordinated by neuroscientist Rejko Krueger of the Luxembourg Institute of Health (LIH), where asymptomatic carriers are systematically monitored to obtain comprehensive data on the epidemiology and dynamics of the disease, to the historical survey with which Benoît Majerus wants to analyse the development and impact of the pandemic.
This direct implication, combined with the fact that it has been known for some time that more than half of the doctors currently working in this country will retire in the next ten years, were powerful arguments for promoting and completing medical training.
Ever since the university was founded 17 years ago, the wish for an "école de médecine" has been hanging over the University of Luxembourg. With the Bachelor's degree, the basic medical training that will be offered from September onwards, it is responding to this wish. Around 100 students will be admitted after passing their school-leaving exams. After the first year of study, 25 of them will be able to continue their studies in Luxembourg, while 50 more will be able to take up places in the partner universities in France, Belgium and Germany. Great importance is attached to modern technologies and working methods in this training. This requirement was already formulated when the agreement between the University and the Ministry of Science and Research was signed two years ago, and was emphasised again when the study programme was presented in practice.
Adapted to the future
In parallel to medicine, three courses are offered in engineering, mathematics and physics. They correspond to a bachelor's degree, i.e. the basic education, but also include a master's degree and the possibility to prepare for a doctorate.
Just like the medical training, the new training offer in engineering corresponds to the needs of the country. Almost 1,500 jobs are said to be open, and the future engineers are in demand in industry as well as in road construction, electrical engineering and digital science, where analytical and administrative skills and a conscious approach to the environment are also required. Around 100 students will be admitted from September, with German as the main language of instruction.
A new concept and adaptation to modern reality has also been developed for the training of future mathematicians and physicists. Here too, the focus is once again on analytical and logical aspects. As a result, these sciences, which used to be regarded primarily as teaching professions, now find interesting and varied perspectives in research, industry and finance. Here too, linguistic skills in French, German and English are required. This type of teaching alone has proven to make the University of Luxembourg the most international university in the world. Luxembourg has also gained in international rankings. The university is ranked 17th among the universities founded less than 50 years ago. In the worldwide ranking, it has made it into the top 200.
Pride in crisis management
Just like most local companies, everything was different on the campus in Belval, Kirchberg and Luxembourg City from 13 March onwards. "We are very proud to have put in place in just one weekend a structure that will allow us to continue working as well as possible," said Rector Stéphane Pallage during the video conference to present the new courses. Teaching is digital, the researchers are still active, but it is more difficult for those who have to work in laboratories.
The Rector was not yet able to say anything precise about the date when the university will resume its activities, which now affect almost 9,000 people. However, he assumes that the work will resume in stages, with researchers in the laboratories or PhD students probably having priority. In any case, it is important that the safety and health of all was guaranteed.
Title: For lunch and more: opening of the third restaurant of the University of Luxembourg in Belval
DATE: 14.11.2018
A place to eat, be together and learn. With its "meet, eat and study" concept, the new university restaurant, christened "Food Lab", on the ground floor of the "Maison des sciences humaines" attracts large numbers of students.
On Monday the waiting of the hungry students came to an end. The new "Food Lab" was finally opened after a long announcement. With 254 seats, the new cafeteria is even bigger and can accommodate more students than the existing university restaurant, which is located behind the "Maison du savoir".
However, the "Food Lab" will not only serve as a cafeteria. Behind the slogan "Meet, eat and study" is the idea that more than just eating can be done there: "Students who do not consume anything are not immediately chased out", explains Monique Ludovicy, head of the operating company Restopolis. Via its website, the university issued 250 vouchers with which students could get a free lunch at the "Food Lab". This marketing strategy worked. On its opening day on Monday, the new canteen was already well attended.
A new concept
From now on, a completely new concept will be introduced in all restaurants of the University of Luxembourg. The "Food Lab" has demonstrated this with its motto. The other two refectories and the take-out station in the "Maison de savoir" will be renamed and each will have similar logos to the one of the "Food Lab", only in different colours. Thus, in the future Uni.lu will have the "Food Lab", the "Food House", the "Food Zone" and the "Food Café". With these four restaurants and 600 seats, the university will now be able to offer its students enough space to eat. However, the new concept does not only include new names and colored logos. Other Restopolis restaurants only offer three menus: Appetizer, Main Course and Dessert; Appetizer and Main Course or Main Course and Dessert.
In the "Food Lab" however, students can combine the individual dishes as they wish. Orders for individual starters such as salad and soup are easily placed. Individual desserts can also be ordered. Furthermore, popular meals such as hamburgers or kebabs, which were previously only available as take-away, will now be served as real main courses in the university restaurants. "It's all about freedom. People want to combine and vary their meals according to their own taste," explains Monique Ludovicy. This possibility of combining and composing is now being tested at Uni.lu, but Ludovicy has no doubt that it is well received and will be implemented in all other Restopolis restaurants in the future.
Less plastic waste
The ecological footprint is also important to those responsible. The fact that the students of all lyceums and the students of the Uni.lu can order their meals to go and eat outside the cafeteria is on the one hand extremely practical, but on the other hand the plastic packaging is harmful to the environment and pollutes the campus if it is not disposed of properly in a rubbish bin, but simply thrown on the floor and left on benches without consideration.
Soon, an attempt will be made to encourage Restopolis consumers to eat their food in the cafeteria. Monique Ludovicy, however, has another idea regarding plastic take-away packaging. It will soon be introduced that students bring their own lunch boxes and Tupperware containers so that the cafeteria staff can give them the take-out meals without producing unnecessary plastic waste. The introduction and sale of their own Restopolis lunch box is already being discussed.
In the morning and in the evening
Of course, the students' hunger is not only satisfied at lunchtime. In the morning, there is a choice of breakfast in the "Food Lab" as well as in the other refectories of the university. "Most young people buy unhealthy pastries in the morning, we want to discourage them," says Ludovicy. So in the morning, in addition to the baked goods, homemade mueslis, cakes and breads are on sale. But there is no dinner. Three years ago, it was offered for a short time.
But that did not bring the desired success. In the meantime, the student council has drawn up a proposal that dinner should be served in the refectories again, as many students still have lectures in the evening. The request is big, so that probably soon dinner will be served in the new "Food Lab" in the evening as well.
Title: Belval Plaza attracts almost four million visitors
DATE: 2.2.2016
The Belval Plaza shopping centre has attracted more visitors in 2015. In March, two well-known chains will open a new fashion store and a new shoe store.
After years of low customer flows, the Belval Plaza shopping center has attracted 3.7 million visitors in 2015. This was announced by the Luxembourg management company Devimo Consult Lux on Tuesday. With the opening of the Belval Campus, the stores were able to increase the number of their customers.Two new stores will move into some of the many empty rows of shops: After the Golden Bean café, which already opened in December, two well-known chains will be added in March: the fashion line TALLY Weij and the shoe retailer Tamaris will each open a branch. Belval Plaza currently has more than 40 shops and seven restaurants. The shopping centre was opened in 2008
Title: 15 projects for the future of education: Government invests 1.3 billion euros in school infrastructure
DATE: 4.7.2019
The government is investing 1.3 billion euros in 15 projects in the education sector. This was announced yesterday by Infrastructure Minister François Bausch ("déi greng") and Education Minister Claude Meisch (DP). These projects include the construction of two new schools and eight buildings for existing facilities as well as five extension and renovation projects.
The "Ecole nationale pour adultes" (ENAD), which has been on Paul Wurth's site in Hollerich since 2012, is to remain there until 2021. After that, it will be given a temporary home on the Geesseknaeppchen campus before moving to Mersch in 2024 to the 1.2-hectare "Mierscherbierg" site.
The "Sportlycée" (SLL) is currently located in Luxembourg City on the "Fetschenhaff". But as it turned out, the site is too small. Two new locations are now under discussion: Mamer and the Eurocontrol site on Boulevard Konrad Adenauer.
For some time now, there has been talk of a new building for the "Lycée technique de Bonnevoie" (LTB). So far, nothing has happened: the public-private tender of 2017 for the project has been cancelled. The Administration for Public Buildings has been commissioned with the new building, which will be constructed in the immediate vicinity of the current location.
A lyceum with a new concept is to be built in the south of Luxembourg. This pilot project will focus on the digital and social skills of students. However, the planned facility in Belval is a provisional solution: the final location with space for 500 students is to be built on the industrial wastelands in Esch-Schifflingen.
At Limpertsberg, another European School will open its doors in 2027 in the new building of the current Lycée Michel Lucius (LML) and Lycée Vauban. Up to 1,400 pupils will be taught there.
The "Lycée Edward Steichen" in Clerf has its first school year behind it. It is soon to be enlarged and will offer space for 1,530 pupils.
The excavators will also be rolling in the building of the Tourism and Hotel School (EHTL) in Diekirch. Whether it will be renovated or even a new building is to be constructed is not yet clear. The aim is to provide space for 600 pupils.
The "Ecole internationale de Differdange et d'Esch" (EIDE) is moving into the former building of the "Centre d'éducation différenciée" in the rue d'Esch in Monnerich.
The "Nordstad-Lycée" (NOSL), which is currently spread over several temporary accommodations in Diekirch, will move to a new building in Erpeldingen an der Sauer.
The "Lycée technique pour professions de santé" (LTPS) is also changing location. The school is currently located in rue Barblé in Luxembourg City. The new building near the "Centre hospitalier de Luxembourg" (CHL) will be equipped with the latest technology in health care and also have a boarding school.
The speech therapy centre (CL) in Strassen will be expanded. An additional floor will increase the capacity of the school for children with speech and hearing problems.
Last year, the "Ecole internationale de Mondorf-les-Bains" opened its doors in Villa Ungeheuer, a temporary location. The already existing wings will be extended. In the future, the "Munnerefer Lycée" is to receive a permanent home on the "Op Gréimelter" grounds. Students should be able to easily access the sports facilities there and the planned velodrome.
For the "Lycée technique du Centre" (LTC), a new building is planned on Howald in Hesperingen. The new "Midfield" quarter near the "Ban de Gasperich" will house the school. The project also plans to integrate the "Centre pour le développement intellectuel" (CDI), currently located in Walferdingen, into the new structure.
The "Lycée Michel Lucius" (LML) and the International School Michel Lucius will move into the Kirchberg district. The primary school will be built on the "Laangfur" site and the secondary school (Luxembourgish and English) on the "Kuebebierg" site.
Work is also planned on the Geesseknaeppchen campus with its approximately 6,000 pupils. The forum is to be expanded and the "Ecole de commerce et de gestion" (ECG) is to be renovated. In addition, the existing school canteen will be enlarged and supplemented by a further canteen. A new concept for traffic, access to the campus and security will also be worked out.
Title: Steel industry in Luxembourg.
DATE: 14.6.2015
Esch - the city of the workers
Esch-sur-Alzette in Luxembourg achieved prosperity and wealth through its steel industry. Those days are over, the blast furnaces are shut down except for one. Esch sees its future in the university - and wants to become the city of science."In the 19th/20th century every façade or architectural style had a political connotation. Neo-Egyptian was reserved for synagogues or open-wall lodges, Orientalist for baths or department stores, Neo-Romanesque-Neo-Gothic for churches, Neo-Renaissance for secular administrative buildings, and then the art of the late 18th century was based on castle architecture, inspired and actually politically neutral, which had nothing else in mind but to depict material success. It was a kind of self-portrayal in architecture", explains city guide Robert Leon Philippart in Esch-sur-Alzette, the city of which one can hardly believe what he says on a tour: "Esch was a sleepy village until iron ore was found, which from 1838 onwards could be exploited first partially, then systematically industrially".
Prosperity through industrial development
This industrial development brought great prosperity. Thousands of workers from Germany, Belgium, France and Italy settled. Craft and industry flourished. Rich citizens showed their prosperity in extremely representative residential and commercial buildings. Here they realised their ideas of architecture. The renowned German town planner Josef Stuebben provided the specifications for the expansion of the city. Philippart: "One of the great masters. He wrote the manual of urban planning. Stuebben was interested in taking nature, history, topography and climate into account in urban development. That also helped that Esch has such a great density and also has a coherent urban planning here and so a coherent development."
Only in the Rue de l'Alzette, a dead straight street in the centre, there is a dense concentration of buildings from the period between 1880 and 1930, in the styles of historicism, art nouveau, art deco and early modernism. Symbols of moral, ethical, religious and cultural values characterize the facades of the carefully restored buildings. The tourist circuit is over five kilometres long. It gives insight into the recent past of the city. "The yellow one here, built in the precious stone of Chaumont near Metz, is neo-Gothic. These were mostly people who dreamed of a Romantic-Christian age, because Gothic and Neo-Romanticism were reserved for churches back then," says the city guide.
Modern language of forms
One could afford expensive materials such as copper for domes, enamelled bricks that reflect the light to make sculptures stand out better, or finely forged iron bars, cut crystal glass, lead frames, coloured windows and much more: "People defined themselves as citizens through their work. On the left we have Asclepius with the snake. This left half belonged to a chemist. On the right, we have Venus with the bubble head who laces her shoes; there was a shoe shop here. So like the guild houses in the Middle Ages, you try the modern design language."
The workers and craftsmen received the highest recognition. On a prominent place high up on the façade of the town hall, on the tympanum, they were honoured for their work in the mines and steelworks, as they made a major contribution to making the town rich, Philippart: "If you depict a tympanum and put a coat of arms there, this coat of arms is usually framed by lions. Here it is framed by miners and pit workers. This means that this town belongs to the workers. This is the city of the working people. The first May Day celebrations were also celebrated here on this square. It was here that the first social security was demanded. On the right half of the tympanum you can see the blast furnaces and below it is written: Mer welle bleiwe wat mer sin. That is Luxembourg's motto: "We want to remain what we are, that is, we belong to this whole country". After about 100 years, with the steel crisis in the 1970s and 1980s, the sources of wealth dried up. The blast furnaces had to be shut down. One was sold completely to China. Only one plant is still operating. In electric furnaces, nearly 5,000 workers make sheet piling from scrap metal.
New city district 
The differences couldn't be any crasser, because after a few kilometres the scenery has changed completely. Large wastelands characterize the landscape, rummaged soil, raised mounds of earth. As a relic of the past, the silhouette of a blast furnace becomes visible, and after a bend in the new road you suddenly find yourself in a new world. Still surrounded by industrial wasteland, a new part of the city spreads out: Esh-Belval.
Antoinette Lorang, Cultural Officer of the Belval Fund, says about this project: "We had the task of building a university here, but not as a campus, as you know it from the periphery of cities, but really a new district with mixed functions: university, shops, apartments, offices, and a large part of it has already been built. There is a large business centre with cinema, restaurants, café and then the blast furnace area. This is a really big step for us now, because: You have to imagine that for years now a very large area has been under construction and that the area is now really very attractive for visitors. The State of Luxembourg has made one billion euros available for the first construction phase. In the next few years, the site will be further expanded, new companies and investors will be sought: "Cité des Scienes - City of Science. What is it? Research facilities, but also everything else around it - student housing, cultural activities, state administrations are also included in this programme, and here 7,000 students will move to Belval and 3,000 researchers by 2020 approximately."
The blast furnace plant has been given a special position according to its importance for the development of the region. Surrounded by large water basins with plants and open spaces that have been matched to the metal structures in terms of colour and material, an impressive industrial monument has been created here. Lorang: "At the beginning, many people were skeptical, but now that the whole thing has been finished with the design, it gets a completely different special flair. You can see that the whole concept carries."
Title: Open day / Discover the University of Luxembourg online during the Corona crisis
DATE: 20.3.2020
Public life in Luxembourg has come to a standstill because of the Corona crisis. This also poses a challenge for the University of Luxembourg. Actually, the open day is intended to give future students an insight into what the university has to offer. Now the event is simply being moved to the net.
Actually, the Open Day is one of the biggest events in the University of Luxembourg's calendar. However, due to the corona crisis, this year's event is cancelled. In order to give future students and all those interested a glimpse behind the scenes, the university is moving the day to the net.With the help of videos, online presentations and picture galleries, the building and the various courses of study will be presented. From Saturday, the virtual doors will be open on the website (www.uni.lu). In the course of the coming weeks, further content will be uploaded, according to the university's press office.
Title: Preheating
DATE: 10.4.2016
International courses of study and new institutes are emerging in the Luxembourg province, and expectations are high. But does a country with the population of Essen need its own university? A visit.
Tarpaulins hang over the building fences, behind them an excavator piles up rubble. Behind plywood panels, men carry sacks of cement, they saw up steles. Cranes circle over everything. The construction site is well hidden, but not well enough. There's dust and rumbling. On a foil that holds sealing sheets together, someone has scribbled their destination in capital letters: "Maison du Livre" - House of Books. The building, which was once supposed to be a library, still reminds us of what it once was: a burden house, part of a steel mill where coke and ore were mixed.
Belval in Luxembourg, about twenty minutes by car south of the capital, near the border with France. Here, on an area of almost 200 hectares, the industrial heart of the country was beating, blast furnaces, sinter plants, heavy industry. Ore and coal were pumped north from Belval, and those who lived here lived on iron and steel. Two of the former six blast furnaces still tower into the sky, blast furnaces A and B, they are almost 90 metres high. But nothing is cracking any more, nothing is humming - and if it does, then it's just the construction workers' machines. Since 1997, the last blast furnace has been shut down. The first and only public university in the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg now stands on the former industrial wasteland. In the meantime, the first semester is over and the construction sites are manageable in number and size. From now on, those who live here are to live from research and teaching.
Eros Ramazzotti was already here; otherwise the colourful life of the small town is still modest
Does a country like Luxembourg, which has about as many inhabitants as the city of Essen, even need its own university? This question had been debated for a long time. But sending students abroad to study was in danger of not coming back once they had passed their state exams and master's degree. So the decision was made: yes, the Grand Duchy wants its own public university. But where? The city of Luxembourg, that is the European Court of Justice, the European Court of Auditors, parts of the European Commission. Then countless investment banks with towers of glass. High salaries, steep careers. From Monday to Friday the city pulsates, at midday the boulevards are congested, a hectic hustle and bustle. The new university was intended to be a counterweight to this centre, which has always stood for the entire country. An industrial wasteland in the province came in handy.
The university was already founded in 2003, at that time at three locations in the country. An interim solution. Last September the new Belval campus was inaugurated; lecture halls and seminar rooms, everything necessary was ready. The core of this campus is the "Maison du Savoir", which means "House of Knowledge". The corridors are wide, the walls puristically sparse in grey and black, carpets muffle the steps, the lamps on the ceiling look like UFOs. An escalator takes the students to the cafeteria. On every floor, screens show when and where which course is being held: Theory of Interculturalism, Room 4520, Luxembourgeois, Language Center.
"Maison du savoir", which can also be translated as "House of Wisdom"; a name that reflects the ambitious goals. Here, in Belval, the country's elite is to be nurtured, the university sees itself as a research location: there are considerably more Master's than Bachelor's courses, biomedicine, European law, information and communication technology. Seven doctoral schools. For example, internationally renowned biomedical scientists are doing research on campus to enable earlier diagnosis of Parkinson's disease. The Royal Bank of Canada (RBC) is located here. The state is spending a total of 960 million euros on this campus until 2018.
The rector, the economist Rainer Klump, has been in office since the beginning of 2015. Or Georg Mein. He is the dean of the humanities faculty, checkered shirt, beige suit. He completed his doctorate in Bonn and his habilitation in Bielefeld, and when he came to Luxembourg in 2006, the German local press was already whispering about the "Turbo-Uni" in the neighbouring country, the "new engine of science". Mein was supposed to get this engine running by setting up the Institute for German Studies. Drawing up course plans, hiring lecturers is one thing. But how do you shape the soul of a university?
"Without question, we are experiencing a laboratory situation here," says Mein. Grown German and French universities such as the Eberhard Karls University in Tuebingen or the Sorbonne in Paris could well refer to centuries-old traditions, to graduates such as the writer Christoph Martin Wieland or the philosopher Simone de Beauvoir. But all too often this tradition goes hand in hand with the obligation not to change anything. Here, in Belval, the focus is on the future, and that is what makes this European university on Luxembourg soil so special. For him and his colleagues, the future means: smart solutions, SAP, e-learning platforms. International excellence, interdisciplinary research; some of the students, for example, study on a small campus in the city because they can walk from there to the institutions of the European Union. All of this, says Mein, is appreciated by the lecturers, who can design their courses according to their own preferences because no one before them has ever done so.
Many courses are multilingual. "This is important so that our students can start without any problems in a globalised job market after their Master's or state exams," says Mein. Especially in a country like Luxembourg, where 45 percent of students are foreigners. Here, between Beiler in the north and Duedelingen in the south, live almost 550,000 people, including 92,000 Portuguese alone (former guest workers - the largest minority in the country), many Italians, some British. And so more than half of the students at the university are not from Luxembourg. Sure, many come from the Greater Region, there are cars with Trier and Saarbruecken license plates in the parking lot, then French, Belgian. But in total, the students here come from 115 countries. Most of them come to Belval not only to study materials science or education at a high level, but also because they can do so here in an international context.
Title: Campus animation: a visit to the "Maison des arts et des étudiants
DATE: 27.7.2018
Two weeks ago, the "Maison des arts et des étudiants" and the "Maison du nombre" finally officially inaugurated the "heart of the campus". 83 million euros were spent by the state. While one building offers offices and teaching rooms for mathematicians and computer scientists, the other is intended to enliven the "Cité des sciences" outside the academic world.
The new "Maison des arts et des étudiants" impresses above all with its impressive exterior façade. The 3D-optic cladding is made of stainless steel. The inox was treated with electrolysis. This gives it its grey-brown-golden shimmering colour.
In front of the main entrance there is an officer of a private security company. There Daniela Di Santo welcomes us. She is deputy director of the Belval Fund and has accompanied the development of the "Cité des sciences" from the very beginning. A furniture company is currently delivering cabinets. The "Maison des arts et des étudiants" will not welcome its first guests until October. After the summer holidays, the university will hold its staff party there. In November, a concert for the 15th anniversary of the University of Luxembourg will be organized in the festival hall.
This "Salle de spectacle" is located just behind the large entrance area, which will be furnished with armchairs and will also house a cafeteria. The 25 by 25 metre room, almost 16 metres high and equipped with the latest technology, is intended for larger events. "It is already being called the 'little Rockhal'", confirms Daniela Di Santo. Not only because, with a capacity of 1,200 visitors, it is in no way inferior to the Rockhal Club, but also because the Club has served as a model. Whether for concerts, theatre performances or lectures, the still empty space can be used in many ways. It is managed by the Belval Fund.
"The University of Luxembourg and the student organizations have priority when booking. For them, the use is free of charge. But other actors such as public institutions, associations or companies can also rent the hall for a fee. Just like the large conference room of the 'Maison du savoir', where events are regularly held," explains Di Santo.
"Megalomaniacal" and "impressive"
University Rector Stéphane Pallage described the "Maison des arts et des étudiants" as the "heart of the campus" at its official inauguration two weeks ago. It should attract students and finally fill the "Cité des sciences" with life outside of the academic world.
Claude Ewert, student representative in the faculty council of the University of Luxembourg, finds the event room "impressive". The size is ideal for medium-sized concerts. Ewert does not share the opinion circulating among critically minded employees of the university that the event hall is "megalomaniacal" because of its size and technical equipment. Perhaps it is a bit too "chic" and needs to be made more lively, but in principle a concert hall is not bad for the university. Daniela Di Santo also emphasizes that the Belval Fund, together with the university, must look at how the space can be filled. "We are only just starting to use it. We will see how it develops," says Di Santo.
With the "Student Lounge", which is to be set up in the adjacent "Maison du nombre", the "Maison des arts et des étudiants" offers a good opportunity to get more visitors to the campus, says Ewert. Student life is currently developing very slowly. Until now, the "Student Lounge" was temporarily housed in a container building opposite Blast Furnace A. That it will now find a permanent home in the new building is therefore to be welcomed, says Ewert.
In addition to the event hall, the "Maison des arts et des étudiants" also has several smaller rooms on the upper floors. According to Ewert, who himself plays guitar in the death metal band Retrace my Fragments, the rehearsal room for theatre groups and music bands is also suitable for organising small concerts.
In addition, rooms with suitable equipment for art and architecture students have also been set up. Several versatile rooms complete the offer. On the first floor, offices are reserved for student associations, and in the spacious corridor next to the stairs there are wooden boxes open to the top, in which students can hold meetings. Claude Ewert also welcomes these possibilities, as up to now there have been no exclusive rooms for the student associations.
The "Maison des arts et des étudiants" and the neighbouring "Maison du nombre", which houses students and researchers in mathematics and computer science, form a unit with two different buildings. They were financed under a single law. The total cost amounts to 83 million euros.
Title: "Implement major spatial planning projects together"
DATE: 29.1.2020
Luxembourg and France plan ten-year building exhibition in border region.
Luxembourg and France are planning a ten-year International Building Exhibition (IBA) in the border area of the former Luxembourg steel metropolis of Esch-sur-Alzette. The preliminary planning will officially begin on Thursday, said Dorothée Habay-Lê, director of the European Grouping for Territorial Cooperation Alzette-Belval (Groupement Européen de Coopération Territoriale - GECT Belval), yesterday, Tuesday, in Audun-le-Tiche, France, to the German Press Agency. The planning should be completed by the end of 2021. Once all partners have given their approval, the IBA Alzette-Belval is then planned for the years 2022 to 2032. "The idea is to implement major spatial planning projects together", Habay-Lê said.
Independent of the Saarland proposal
"The IBA is another step towards integrated cooperation." The region around the town of Esch, which is located directly on the border with France and will be the European Capital of Culture in 2022, has "always been very much turned towards France", he said. Cross-border cooperation has existed since 1990, and since 2012 there has also been the Grouping for Territorial Cooperation (GECT).
"With the IBA, we can implement cross-border projects that are of direct benefit to our territory". The plan for the Alzette-Belval international building exhibition was developed independently of a proposal by Saarland Prime Minister Tobias Hans for an international building exhibition in the Greater Region, Habay-Lê said. Hans, who also chairs the Greater Region with almost 12 million inhabitants in Saarland, Rhineland-Palatinate, Luxembourg, Lorraine and Belgian Wallonia, is aiming for a decision by the region's heads of government at the end of 2020. His presidency of the Greater Region will then also end.
Launch event on Thursday morning
On Thursday morning, the Belval campus will host a major launch event for the pre-planning stage, at which Claude Turmes, Luxembourg's Minister for Regional Planning, Henri Kox, the Minister for Housing, Jean-Luc Bohl, the first Vice-President of the French Grand Est region, Stéphane Pallage, will participate, Rector of the University of Luxembourg, Georges Mischo, the Mayor of Esch-Alzette, Pim Knaff, Escher Schoeffe and First Vice-President of the GECT, Thierry Hegay, GECT President and Associate Prefect of Thionville, André Parthenay, the President of the communal community "Pays Haut Val d'Alzette" and Prof. Thomas Sieverts, architect and urbanist of the IBA Emscher Park.
The IBA instrument represents a unique additional means of shaping cross-border space, the invitation said. Although the GECT is in charge of the project, it is working with the financial support of the French Ministry for Ecological and Solidarity Transition and the Grand Est region, and with the Luxembourg Ministries of Energy and Regional Planning and Housing. Partnerships are also planned with the University of Luxembourg, the "Luxembourg Center for Architecture" and the "Établissement public d'aménagement d'Alzette-Belval".
Title: The old blast furnace in Belval is glowing again
DATE: 7.5.2017
There were more than 20 cultural spots to visit in and around Esch/Alzette. Especially the blast furnace in Belval had its big performance on Saturday evening.
It was an exciting evening at a special place that turned night into day. Especially the light show let the old blast furnace glow again.
Title: Esch 2022 cannot enter the blower hall
DATE: 28.4.2019
It will not be possible to use the blower hall in Belval for the European Capital of Culture 2022. This was confirmed by Minister of Culture Sam Tanson ("déi gréng") on Saturday when asked. Investigations had revealed safety deficiencies in the building, which was built in 1911. The necessary repairs could not be completed by 2022, Tanson said. The public institution Fonds Belval is now trying to find another building in Belval that could be used for the Capital of Culture.
The General Director of Esch 2022, Nancy Braun, had wanted the blower hall as the headquarters for the Capital of Culture. Only two months ago, she announced her intention to move the offices of Esch 2022 from the Creative Hub 1535° in Differdingen to the Blower Hall on Belval before the summer holidays. The rest of the hall was to be used for cultural events.
Usage concepts worked out
Nancy Braun's predecessors and the artistic directors Christian Mosar, Janina Stroetgen and Andreas Wagner, had chosen the Blower Hall as the epicentre of Esch 2022 in the Capital of Culture's bidbook. For a long time, however, it was unclear what was to happen to the hall, which had already housed the exhibition "All we need" during the Cultural Year 2007. Demolition and the construction of apartments were also on the agenda.
Both the Escher CSV mayor Georges Mischo and the minister of culture Sam Tanson had recently declared that they wanted to use the 160-metre long, 72-metre wide and 28-metre high building for Esch 2022. The "Eise'Stol" working group, which was formed as part of the Southern Region's candidacy for the Unesco programme "Man and the biosphere", has been working out utilisation concepts for the blower hall in workshops over the past few weeks.
With the current announcement that the repairs would take too much time, the future of the industrial hall is again uncertain.
Title: Not ready until 2022: Construction work on the "liaison Micheville" takes longer
DATE: 14.4.2019
80,000 French cross-border commuters travel to Luxembourg every day to work here. In order to alleviate the resulting traffic situation, direct access to the A4 is to be created from Belval. However, this section will not be completed until 2022.
The first section from Audun-le-Tiche to Belval was opened in 2016. Anyone who wants to take the A4 from France currently has to drive through the 735-meter tunnel before reaching the Raemerich roundabout via a temporary roundabout, where they can then take the exit onto the A4. As Le Quotidien wrote on Friday, the construction work on the last section is not to be completed until 2022. Actually, experts had expected the missing section to be finished this year.
After the completion of the approximately one kilometre long section, motorists will be able to access the motorway where the Twinerg power station was originally located. The design of an additional roundabout in Ehleringen will also relieve traffic. The "rond-point Raemerich" will then lose importance. Construction workers are currently busy completing the two bridges over the N31. Traffic is being diverted under the construction site. The total cost of the Audun-Belval-A4 connection is estimated at around 350 million euros.
Title: Esch has a beach again: The party area "Wicky Beach" starts its first season at the new location
DATE: 27.5.2019
Although Elzette is buried in the concrete canal and the sea is not exactly on the doorstep, Esch now has a real beach: On Sunday the "Wicki Beach" club opened its first season. 800 tons of sand and hot beats awaited the visitors.
DJ José Sanchez heated up the party crowd with his beats at the opening party. In addition to CSV Mayor Georges Mischo, also the jurors Pim Knaff and Mandy Ragni had found their way to the rue de Belval, not to miss this new location. Mischo thinks it is important to create such events, because it is not enough to say that you are a university town and then nothing is happening.
In the next few weeks, the 1,500-square-metre site will offer a lot of things: On June 7th there will be an 80s and 90s party, the next day everything will be under the theme "Tropical Beach Edition", and on June 14th the stage will be available for a live performance by Lost Frequencies. In addition to another 90s party on July 6th and a sangria party on July 9th, "Crazy Cool Summerparty" with Isi Glueck, Oli P. and Lorenz Bueffel, among others, is scheduled for July 12th.
On September 21, the Italian festival "Terra Rossa" will take place with two Italian stars: Pupo and Umberto Tozzi. The comedian Biagio Izzo and the musician Alessandro Canini will also take part in this festival.
Besides the comfortable chilling with good music, 800 tons of sand and 14 palm trees, the Luxembourg company Pyro4you also ignited a two-minute day firework for this opening in Esch, where coloured comets were shot into the air.
Title: From 35,000 to 56,000 inhabitants - Esch plans major changes for 2050
DATE: 12.12.2018
On Monday evening, the first public information event within the framework of the procedure for drawing up the new land use plan (PAG) took place in the meeting room of the Escher Town Hall. The interest was great, but not much was revealed yet. However, public participation is expressly desired in the procedure. In the coming days, the first PAG documents can be viewed in the pavilion on Brillplatz and discussed with those responsible in the city (for the dates, see info box).
Since the national planning law of 2004 and the revised version of 2011, Luxembourg has been discussing the need for all municipalities to adopt a new land use plan (PAG) in order to meet the demographic, transport and now also environmental challenges. The submission deadline has been postponed several times and the requirements have been adapted to the changed growth.
The city of Esch will also face great challenges in the coming years and decades. The development of the industrial wastelands "Lentille Terre Rouge" and Esch-Schifflingen will allow the former minette metropolis to continue to grow.
Title: Does Esch still get a museum for city history?
DATE: 12.4.2019
For years, the two demands of the "Amis de l'Histoire et du musée de la Ville d'Esch-sur-Alzette" (AHME), premises for a local history museum and excavations "op der Glaeicht" have been repeated. Now it seems that there is finally a serious glimmer of hope.
The good news was brought by Pim Knaff (DP), the cultural director. Although not yet agreed with his colleagues from the Council of Aldermen, he has announced that the ground floor or first floor of the Luxcontrol building will be used for an Escher "local museum", which the municipality would like to purchase to extend the music conservatory. In general, it is not a lack of good will when it comes to adequate premises for associations; it is rather the lack of available real estate that causes headaches. In the near future, fundamental decisions will have to be taken to complete the development of the industrial wasteland of Esch-Schifflingen with a cultural and association centre worthy of the country's second largest city.
"Esch lacks a local museum", says the secretary of AHME, Laurent Biltgen, unequivocally. Esch looks back on thousands of years of history, he says, it is not only about industrial culture. There are many interesting things to discover and experience, but there is no place where visitors of Esch can inform themselves about the prehistory of our town from the Middle Ages to the Stone Age. Concerning the excavations on "Glaeicht", which AHME would like to see as part of "Esch 2022", Pim Knaff offered the cooperation of the community to submit this project. This would give AHME a partner who could also help financially with this project. In 2022, Esch has to offer a cultural programme for ten months, so that one could imagine participatory excavations with the participation of visitors, pupils and students.
History and industrial heritage
Promising exploratory excavations took place on "Glaeicht" from 2002 to 2006. 5,000 artefacts from many epochs came to light and are witnesses to a settlement dating back to the Stone Age. Aerial photographs suggest further exciting discoveries. The AHME currently consists of 95 members. Among the activities of the past season were a visit to the Duedelinger "Musée municipal", participation in the conference "L'Homme de Loschbour" and a mini-exhibition on palaeometallurgy. Some members are in the Linster Foundation in Hellingen, where the Merovingian tomb is exhibited, which was excavated on "Glaeicht" in 2003. However, the main activity of the association is the publication of articles on local history.
These are published on the website of the Geschichtsfreunde. Up to now 50 articles have been published here, last year there were 15. You can also subscribe to a list to receive these articles by e-mail. Since March last year, the Geschichtsfreunde have also been present on Facebook under "Escher Geschichtsfrënn". For 2019, the publication of articles remains the main activity of AHME. On 20 April, the programme includes a visit to the exhibition "Mansfeld-Schlass - Un château disparu" in the National Archives. The General Assembly closed with a very personal lecture by Henri Juda entitled: "Fatal years 1910-1960, My family history in the focus of history". The Board of Directors consists of Gaby Bruch, Cyrille Frères, Vanna Kerg, Camille Robert, Marc Schaack, Jean Kramp, Laurent Biltgen, Bernard Weber, Johny Karger and Romain Becker.
Title: New classroom for Esch/Alzette
DATE: 31.1.2018
For the coming start of school, Esch/Alzette will have one more school including maison relais. This is planned along the Rue d'Ehlerange and will accommodate about 150 students. But the timing is tight. Construction will start next week.Nothing on the site along the Rue d'Ehlerange, where the "Dipbach" runs under the street, indicates that there will soon be about 150 children sitting on school benches.
But as was explained at an information meeting on Monday evening, the construction of a new school including a maison relais is to start here next week. Since it will be built in prefabricated wooden construction, the construction time is relatively short, explained Marc Lukas, architect at the Escher city administration.
Space for 150 pupils
For example, Martin Kox (Déi Gréng), the lay assessor, assured that the building would be ready for use when school starts in September 2018. The Maison relais is expected to offer as many places as there are students enrolled in the school.
In addition to the nine classrooms, which are spread over three levels, there will also be a library, a "Salle d'action", interactive rooms and a relaxation room. A kitchen and a large dining room are also planned.
The building will not be directly attached to Rue d'Ehlerange. There will be a few short-term parking spaces and a stop for the school bus.
"Nonnewisen" and "Brouch" schools will be relieved
Children who currently attend the "Nonnewisen" and "Brouch" school buildings will benefit from the new structure. Their parents have already been contacted. The districts of Raemerich and Belval as well as surrounding streets will be affected.
However, if parents would like their children to continue attending their current school, the city could comply with this wish, it was said during the information meeting.
Alderman Martin Kox also explained that negotiations with the new owner of the Mercedes garage will be started to build a pedestrian walkway that will lead from the Route de Belvaux to the school.
Jean Tonnar: And the bats?
 The school building had already been planned by the previous majority and should actually be open by now. But nature had taken back its rights on the land between the Rue d'Ehlerange and the Route de Belvaux, which had been fallow for years.
So the former school juror, Jean Tonnar (LSAP), did not miss the opportunity to ask how the bats are supposed to move there. Because of the protection of these animals, the project was recently delayed.
As Martin Kox explained, he managed to find a compromise with the Secretary of State in the Ministry of Sustainability, Camille Gira. The school will be built closer to Rue d'Ehlerange than originally planned.
"Dipbach" as a green corridor
It was also agreed to preserve a ten-metre wide aisle for nature above the "Dipbach". On the one hand, in order to be able to renature the course of the stream, which today flows in a concrete bed, later. And on the other hand as a flight path for the bats. According to Martin Kox, the renaturation of the "Dipbach" along its entire length is planned in the long term. This would form a green corridor in Esch, from Belval to its mouth in the Alzette near Lallingen.
Title: Quiet in the university district? Belval is not growing despite 327 new apartments
DATE: 27.6.2018
The Agora development company presented its balance sheet for the new Escher district of Belval on Tuesday. If one can believe their statistics, the number of inhabitants, employees and companies located there has remained the same over the past year. And this despite the fact that 327 additional housing units have been built since then.
In ten years, all the plots of land in the former industrial wasteland Belval are to be sold. This goal was announced by Agora president Frank Vansteenkiste on Tuesday at a press conference of the public-private development company. He said that the interest of foreign investors in particular was growing. These include the Capelli Group, which is also active in the real estate sector in France and Switzerland and is currently building the towers of the same name in the "Square Mile" district.
Another important foreign investor is the Austrian-based European company Strabag, which is one of the largest construction companies in the EU. One of Strabag's main shareholders is the Rasperia Trading of the Russian oligarch Oleg Deripaska, who is on the list of persons sanctioned by the USA as a "Specially Designated National". Strabag is currently planning two construction projects on the "Square Mile" and in the northern part.
2,400 inhabitants, 5,000 employees
Belval currently has 2,400 inhabitants, 5,000 employees and 5,600 pupils, students and researchers, explained Agora director Vincent Delwiche. Furthermore, 180 companies, shops and administrations have settled on the former industrial site. This would mean that hardly anything has changed in Belval in the past year. The figures are almost exactly the same as those presented in June 2017. Only the number of students, researchers and pupils has increased by 300 compared to last year.
At the same time, 327 new apartments have been completed in Belval since last June. A total of 1,764 residential units have been built since the start of development, including 931 apartments and single-family homes, 165 accommodations for senior citizens in CIPA Belval North and 668 residential units for students and researchers, Delwiche explained.
Of the total area in Belval, 600,000 square meters are earmarked for public projects and 750,000 square meters for private projects. While all of the public areas have already been built on, only 277,500 square meters of the private plots have been completed or are still under construction. However, 402,500 square meters have already been marketed privately.
Jobs instead of living space
The university library "Maison du livre" is to be opened this year. The "Maison des matériaux" should then be ready for occupancy in 2019. In the "Square Mile" quarter, four new major private projects are to be completed by 2019. In two of them, apartments are to be built in addition to office and retail space. All other projects in this quarter are not expected to be completed until 2020 or 2021. Here, too, the focus will be primarily on office space and services and, to a lesser extent, residential. In order to alleviate the capital's pulling effect and the associated motorway congestion, the government wants to create jobs in the south that suit the population in this region, said Vansteenkiste.
Agora is particularly proud of the project, which won the architectural competition to redesign the sinter basin. An amphitheatre and a water area with a bar and restaurant are to be built there. This project is to be implemented in the municipality of Sanem by 2021. The towers belonging to the sinter plant, which had been shortened years ago for safety reasons, were not in good condition, it was said on Tuesday. Whether they will be preserved is therefore questionable.
The Belval Nord district, which borders on Beles, is also almost finished. The Belval Sud area, which extends towards France, is to become a family-friendly residential area. Of the planned 550 residential units, 120 are to be detached houses. Delwiche said that completion is not expected before 2027 at the earliest.
Connection of Belval
In order to improve Belval's connection to the A4, work is currently underway on the last section of the "Liaison Micheville". Vansteenkiste explained that this connecting road should be completed by 2022. The "Bus à haut niveau de service" (BHNS) between Petingen and Duedelingen as well as the express tram from the Cloche d'or via Foetz and Esch-Schifflingen to Belval should also bring an improvement. However, this is still a dream of the future. The tram is not scheduled to start operating until 2035 at the earliest. Until then, at least four parliamentary elections are still to be held. The bicycle express route between the capital and Esch along the A4 motorway is also still a dream of the future.
An idea that had been put forward in the past months by "déi Lénk" politician Tun Jost and the "Entente Mine Cockerill" is now apparently being taken over by the government. The disused Arbed railway line, which connected the Esch-Schifflingen, "Terre Rouge" and Belval plants, could be used as a cycle path to link the three industrial wastelands, said Vansteenkiste, who is also general coordinator at the Ministry of Sustainable Development and Infrastructure, in addition to his role at Agora. With regard to the direct link between Belval and the Escher Centre, which the Escher Council of Aldermen has been calling for for years, Vansteenkiste said that the Road Administration is currently preparing a study. The connection is not evident because of the active steelworks, but there is "cautious optimism".
Schifflingen
With regard to the Esch-Schifflingen wasteland, which is also being developed by Agora, a feasibility study is currently being carried out, Frank Vansteenkiste explained on Tuesday. On the basis of the first diagnoses, a second phase was launched in September 2017 to draw up concrete urban development recommendations for the redevelopment of the former industrial site. In addition, a cost-benefit analysis will be carried out to examine the profitability. If this analysis leads to a positive result, the urban planning competition could be put out to tender at the end of 2018 and lead to first results in 2019. The end of this procedure would then be the preparation of a master plan.
"Lentille"
The "Lentille" and the "Crassier Terre Rouge" had been included in the "Plan sectoriel logement" at the request of the city of Esch, said Vansteenkiste when asked. Priority should be given to housing construction on these wastelands. This was not in contradiction to the private project planned on the "Lentille". Two weeks ago, the Escher building committee member had stated in a newspaper interview that the municipality had not given priority to housing construction on the "Lentille".
Vansteenkiste said that the "Crassier", which is currently still being dismantled by the Cloos company, should be developed across borders in the long term in cooperation with France.
Title: Esch/Alzette creates new parking space
DATE: 15.11.2017
Authorities, the university on Belval, the longest pedestrian zone in the country ... the "minette metropolis" has become a real attraction over the years, not only for the south of the country. But the consequence of this success was an ever-increasing volume of traffic, coupled with a growing shortage of parking spaces.
The problem was addressed by developing new parking space and expanding the city's car parks. Great hopes were placed in the creation of the car parks under the Town Hall Square and the Brill Square. But, while one almost always indicates "complet", the other is often yawning emptiness. "Too narrow", "too far away", "too difficult to reach", is the verdict of many motorists. With all kinds of advertising campaigns and a change of name they tried to fill the empty parking lot Brill in Esch, but so far without resounding success.
Demand for more parking garage
The agreement of the new CSV-DP "déi gréng" coalition states that an overall concept for mobility, including parking space management, is to be drawn up, with particular attention to the development of the industrial wasteland of Esch/Schifflingen, where a multimodal hub is to be created.
Furthermore, soft mobility, especially in the city centre, is to be expanded. The creation of "shared space" areas is also being considered. Finally, the new majority supports the "Bus à haut niveau de service" (BHNS) concept.
But Esch is by no means poor in parking spaces. A total of 1,202 spaces in the four large car parks are waiting for "squatters". Several thousand parking spaces are scattered all over the city. In recent years, several long-term parking lots have also been created, which are connected to the city centre and the other districts by buses at regular intervals. Within the framework of the redesign of the streets, great importance is attached to the creation of new parking space.
However, due to the high volume of traffic, there is still a risk that the parking space in the city will quickly reach its limits again. For this reason, many residents are calling for the construction of another parking garage. Where this is to be built, however, is a matter of dispute, especially as possible builders and operators point to the high construction costs and have concerns about profitability.
So the parking policy will probably remain a hot potato in Esch in the future.
Resident parking
In the city there is the so-called resident parking in all districts. Residents can ask the municipality for a special vignette that allows them to park for free in their residential area. All they need to do to obtain the vignette is show their identity card and vehicle registration document and pay an annual fee of 15 euros. A household can apply for a maximum of two vignettes, provided there are two adults living in the household. Three cars can also be registered per parking card. About 12,500 such vignettes have been issued in Esch. Exceptions are, however, leasing cars, because here the company is the car owner.
The system is controversial, however, because due to the lack of parking space, residents of one quarter often park their cars in another street, but only the vignette of the other quarter is valid there. As a result, they receive a warning that is subject to a fee. There is also the "P" vignette. It is mainly distributed to business people and costs 150 Euro per year. At the moment there are 989 such vignettes on the road. Their advantage is that they are valid for all districts of Esch/Alzette. But the disadvantage is that you have to move your car and turn the parking disc every two hours.
Parking garages
Esch introduced a parking guidance system some time ago. A total of 18 so-called dynamic display boards permanently indicate how many parking spaces are still available in the city. On three of them no messages like traffic messages etc. can be displayed. In addition there are 21 information signs. Four car parks are currently connected to the system. The car park of the "Hôpital Emile Mayrisch" (Dellhéicht district) has 420 spaces. The underground parking decks of the "Hôtel de ville" ("Al Esch") can accommodate 241 cars, as can the John F. Kennedy car park (station district). The underground car park "Place de la Résistence" ("Brill") can accommodate 300 cars. In addition, there is the "Belval-Université" car park, which is located on the grounds of the municipality of Sanem, but which is of great importance for Esch. Then there are several paid parking lots in the city center (e.g. on the place Benelux, on the place des Remparts, on the Galgenberg, on the place Victor Hugo ...).
In the "minette metropolis", however, several long-term parking spaces have also been set up. For example, visitors or employees can park their vehicles for at least three hours in rue Koch, rue Kieffer, rue Barbourg, rue Prince Henri, rue de Belval, in the "Neiduerf", in the Saint-Joseph car park, in the Aloyse Meyer car park (in the direction of Schifflingen) and in the car park at the Raemerich roundabout. The maximum parking time is ten hours.
Visitors also have the possibility to park their car along the road. In this case, however, they must pay a fee at one of the parking machines. This varies from quarter to quarter.
Intermodal
Vël'ok stations were erected across Esch. They should ensure a smooth transition between motorised traffic and slow-moving traffic. There are also stations for rental bikes in other southern municipalities such as Sanem, Schifflingen, Bettemburg, Duedelingen or Differdingen.
The system works with the "mKaart/E-GO" card. Only a deposit of 150 euros is required to cover any damage to the bike or the disappearance of the bike. As a rule, the bike should not be used for more than half an hour. Penalties for time violations are not foreseen, except for serious cases and repeat offenders. A total of 150 bikes, distributed over 15 stations across Esch, are available to customers. In the region, bikes wait for users at about 70 stations.
In addition, drivers wait for customers at eleven taxi stands. Without forgetting the various bus lines (TICE, "Flexi" and "City"), which regularly connect all districts of the city with each other and the surrounding area.
Tariffs
Long-term parkers: 50 cents an hour, minimum amount 3 euros. The maximum parking time is ten hours (5 euros).
Short-term parkers: A distinction is made here between three zones. In the red zone (Al Esch, Brill) 1.70 euros per hour is charged. In the yellow zone (Dellhéicht, Grenz/Hiel, Neiduerf, Park, Schlassgoart, Uecht and Wobrécken) and in the green zone (Belval, Bruch, Fettmeth, Lallingen, Lankels, Raemerich, Sommet, Universitaet and Zaepert) 1.30 euros per hour is charged. In the car parks the hour costs 1 to 1.50 euros per hour. However, evening and night tariffs and subscriptions (90 Euro/month, 250 Euro for three months and 600 Euro/year) are also offered.
People with a disability can park free of charge in the spaces allocated to them, provided they carry a valid disabled pass.
31 "unlucky" people monitor compliance with the parking regulations. Failure to do so will result in warnings for a fee of between 24 and 145 euros and two points (e.g. if you park in a disabled parking space).
Title: Connection with Luxembourg: From 2035, a tram will be running again in Esch
DATE: 13.6.2018
In 1956 the last tram passed through Esch, in 1964 through Luxembourg City. Since December 2017 our capital has a tram again, and from 2035 both cities could be connected by a tram for the first time.
It is expected that by 2035 the transport needs on the axis Esch-Luxembourg will increase by another 50% compared to today. The A4 motorway is already more than saturated during rush hour, which is reflected in endless traffic jams, while on the CFL routes 6 and 6A (Esch-Bettemburg-Luxembourg) capacities cannot be expanded ad libitum either.
This is why on Monday Transport Minister François Bausch presented a project that would make it possible to connect the two largest cities in the Grand Duchy directly by a new tram line: The CFL is indeed making a huge detour via Bettemburg. This project would have the advantage of creating substantial new transport capacity without placing an additional burden on the existing road and rail infrastructure.
Too many buses on the motorway
Today, at rush hour, an RGTR bus already runs every three minutes on the Escher motorway. The new tram would make it possible to do without it completely.
If buses were to be used instead of the tram on the motorway, the current number of buses would have to be quadrupled by 2035, which would mean a bus every 45 seconds.
In the Minette region, a "Bus à haut niveau de service" (BHNS) is planned - similar to the Metz "Mettis" - which will connect Differdingen with Duedelingen via Sanem-Beles, Esch and Schifflingen. The volume of passengers expected in the Minette in the medium term does not justify the construction of a tramway.
The passengers of these super buses should be able to change to the new intercity tram in Belval. Belval would then become even more important as a "Pôle d'échange modal" than it is now, as the transport modes train, tram, bus (RGTR, BHNS, TICE), car and bicycle would then meet there. François Bausch reminded that a fast cycle path is also planned between Esch and Luxembourg.
Connection Belval-Kirchberg 
The clou of the whole plan is that tram tracks would also be in the city of Esch again: In fact the tram would lead from Belval via Benelux-Platz to the new residential area planned on the industrial wasteland of the Schifflinger Schmelz. However, there are no exact plans yet for the route through Esch-Nord. From Schifflingen-Schmelz, the tram is to go through the Foetz industrial zone, from where the route will run parallel to the A4 towards Leudelingen. Whether it will go through Leudelingen is not yet certain.
What is certain, however, is that the new intercity tram will enter the Luxtram network via Cessingen and Hollerich into the city of Luxembourg, so that there would then be a connection between Belval and Kirchberg without the need to change trains.
Why neither bus nor monorail?
To alleviate the traffic problems on the main axis Esch-Luxembourg, two solutions have been considered in recent years, but neither of them is as suitable as a tram: As far as the bus is concerned, a "car à haut niveau de service" would have to be set up, but this would suffer even more than city buses from a lack of capacity. Outside the cities, all bus passengers must have a seat, which would mean that double-decker buses with a maximum of 90 passengers would be used.
Like the Loch Ness monster, a monorail project emerges from obscurity with chronometric regularity, only to disappear into it again soon after. Et pour cause: Although a monorail has an enormous capacity (up to 30,000 passengers per hour and direction), the concrete piles of such a railway can by no means be planted in the central reservation of a motorway as easily as is often claimed.
Moreover, the construction of such an elevated railway would be much more expensive than a tram. Furthermore, monorails are island operations that, in contrast to a tram-train or an overland tram, cannot use an existing urban network. Finally, such a railway is reliably finished at the edge of the city, because it can hardly be integrated into cities like Luxembourg or Esch, even from an urbanistic point of view. If it were to be built underground in the city, which would also be technically possible, the costs would easily be ten times higher than for a tram of the same length.
A Luxtram with big wheels
For the new tram, the extremely elegant design of today's Luxtram, created under the guidance of the renowned railway designer Eric Rhinn, could well be used. But since the intercity tram will travel at a top speed of 100 km/h, a different technology must be used for the running gear than for the current "Stater" tram.
In fact, no integral low-floor trams can be used at this speed, as they have wheels with a relatively small diameter.
However, if bogies with larger wheels are used, the passenger compartment corridor can only be 70% low-floor, i.e. at the same height as the curbs at the stations (35 cm above the top of the rails). But even with 70% low-floor, there is still plenty of barrier-free space - including all doors - for people with reduced mobility.
Title: "Chilling" on the beach: On Sunday the Wicki Beach starts in Esch
DATE: 24.5.2019
From Sunday, 16.00 hrs, the "minette metropolis" will have one more attraction. Wicki Beach" will open its doors on rue de Belval.
"We're in the final stages of our journey. Everything must be ready for Sunday," explains Sven Kaulmann, who is coordinating the work. Yesterday, things were a little hectic on the almost 1,500 square metre site. In a few hours, the "chilling" will take place there. In order to create a beach and holiday feeling on the slag heap, a total of 800 tons of sand were brought in specially for this purpose.
A small water basin was also installed. A worker is currently screwing down the wood panelling with a cordless screwdriver. "The basin is not huge, but it's enough for a little cooling," jokes Kaulmann. Especially when the temperatures become as tropical again as they will be in 2018. Another form of "cooling down" is provided by all the bars, which are located in containers and terraced seating areas. And there are also plenty of palm trees. 40 staff members take care of the visitors day in, day out.
Up to 4,000 visitors are expected, depending on the event. A professional caterer will take care of the physical well-being. And the "chilling" only becomes a real treat in the shisha bar.
From 16 to 23 o'clock
The supporting programme includes a series of concerts, DJ performances and "after-works". The "Wicki Beach", which took place in Wickringen "beim Hollaenner" from 2013 to 2017, will therefore "rage" from Sunday onwards on the slag heap in rue de Belval. CSV mayor Georges Mischo is pleased that it was possible to bring this event to Esch.
On Sunday, the event will start at 16.00 hours. At 23:00, there will be a curfew so as not to disturb the residents. From Wednesday to Saturday, "Wicki Beach" is open from 17.00 to 24.00 hours. There will be no extended opening hours until late night at "Wicki Beach".
Parking is available in the CFL parking garage at the "Université" station in Belval and in the parking garage under the Brillplatz. Otherwise, public transport will be used. This is used, among other things, when concerts take place.
Title: Burger restaurant from Monaco : Grubers comes to Belval
DATE: 19.9.2016
McDonald's, Quick and Burger King get competition from Monaco: The "Giraudi & Monaco Restaurant Group" opens its first Grubers restaurant in Belval.McDonald's, Quick and Burger King are facing competition from Monaco: The Grubers burger restaurant will open its doors in Belval on Monday. The Luxembourg real estate company Corcelli Groupe has leased the premises in the Avenue du Rock'n'Roll to the Giraudi & Monaco Restaurant Group."In Belval there are many companies, many students - this is exactly the clientele we want to address. The location is therefore a perfect match for our restaurant," says the Monaco press office.
The restaurant mainly serves unusual burgers, such as "Cheesegrubers" "Tuffle" or "Jalapeno". In addition there are veggie cheesegrubers, chicken sandwiches and for children "Smiley Chicken Nuggets". At the moment there are only the burger shops in Monaco and Luxembourg, but more are to follow soon.
Title: Celebrating on the slag heap: Wicki-Beach moves to Esch
DATE: 5.4.2019
From mid-May, the popular Wicki-Beach is to be held on the slag heap along the rue de Belval in Esch. From Wednesday to Sunday, concerts, dances and parties will take place in the open air during the summer months. The tiresome parking problem, which had caused much displeasure in Wickringen, is to be avoided as far as possible in Esch.
After the "Francopholies" the black-green-blue council of lay assessor has now brought another commercial "attraction" to Esch. The Wicki-Beach, which was decorated with two nightlife awards and which was hosted from 2013 to 2017 next to the former café "Beim Hollaenner" in Wickringen, is to find a new home in Esch from mid May to September. Because Wickringen had become too small for the well-attended event and a new building is being constructed at the former location, Luc Frings, manager of the Alpenromantik restaurant "Pissenger Huett", and communication designer Kevin Rotolo had to look elsewhere. With the city of Esch they have now apparently found the perfect partner.
For 2,000 to 5,000 visitors
A few days ago, the first shipping containers were set up on the premises rented by the company Cloos on rue de Belval. Bars and seating areas are to be created in the semi-open containers. Within the 1,300 square metre area, which will be separated from the still active slag heap and the busy road with the help of the containers, a sandy beach is to be created in the coming weeks. The sand comes from the interior of the blower hall on Belval and is still a relic of the "All we need" exhibition that took place there during the Cultural Year 2007, explained Escher CSV Mayor Georges Mischo at a press conference in the town hall on Tuesday.
Depending on the event, the Wicki-Beach should be able to accommodate 2,000 to 5,000 visitors. On Wednesdays and Thursdays, "Shisha & Chill" or "After Work" evenings will be held from 5 p.m. to midnight, explained Kevin Rotolo. On Fridays and Saturdays, special events such as parties or concerts are scheduled. The Belgian DJ Lost Frequencies could already be booked for June 14th. Sundays are usually already open at 16.00 hours. But it should be more relaxed than on the other days. On Sundays, it should end at 23.00 at the latest, stressed Luc Frings. Mischo announced that there will be no extended opening hours until late at night at Wicki-Beach anyway. In order to disturb the residents as little as possible, the organizers assured that special equipment will be installed to ensure that the music will hardly get outside.
Avoid parking chaos
In Wickringen the inhabitants had recently been bothered mainly by the cars. Because there weren't enough parking spaces there, visitors parked their cars at the edge of the rue des Trois Cantons, despite the stopping ban. Regularly there were traffic jams. At the new location in Esch, such chaotic scenes should be avoided as far as possible. The organizers were pleased that the new site is located directly at a bus stop. For concerts, a shuttle service will take visitors from the CFL parking garage in Belval to Wicki-Beach every ten minutes. There are 130 parking spaces available on the site itself, and the car park under the Brillplatz is also within walking distance.
The Wicki-Beach is primarily aimed at schoolchildren and students. Frings and Rotolo explained that the proximity to the University of Luxembourg at Belval was one of the reasons why they chose Esch.
The area could also be used for events in the context of the European Capital of Culture 2022, said green juror Mandy Ragni.
Title: Belval: "The demand for housing is huge"
DATE: 15.2.2018
Belval is growing and growing. Currently, preparations are underway for the development of the Belval-South residential district, where housing for around 1,200 people is to be built once again. The Agora development company, which is also responsible for marketing, plays a key role in this process. According to the Agora, the demand for housing is huge.
In 2001, when the Agora development company started work, the site was an abandoned industrial wasteland. Desolate, inanimate and an important witness to the times. Thomas Rau, responsible for urban planning and infrastructure at Agora, still remembers vividly. "Everything here was abandoned," he says, "but a lot of emotions were attached to the site." That won't change much as long as the generation that worked there is still alive. And even if that is no longer the case, the culture of the working class society will remain alive for several generations. It has shaped Esch/Alzette, it is to it that the country owes its wealth before the fund industry. A lot has happened since then.
A part of the steel and stone witnesses of the times have remained after the closure of the ironworks, the university and other research and scientific institutions have established themselves all around. Student flats and other housing has been built. There are leisure facilities such as the "Um Belval" park and the Belval Plaza shopping and leisure centre with the Kinepolis cinema complex. The already opened
"Lycée Bel-Val" will soon be complemented by the "Kannercampus" from primary school with a support branch (Ediff). In addition, there are two train connections and a well-developed bus network with the station "Belval-Université" and the stop "Lycée". These are among the many public measures taken to ensure the desired 60:40 traffic ratio. This means that 40 percent of all road users should use public transport, and only 60 percent should use their own car.
Once everything is ready, it should be no further than 800 meters from any point in Belval to the nearest public transport connection," says Agora press spokeswoman Mandy Simon, "that is luxury. Luxury is part of the concept. And it must be, in a country that is already groaning under traffic.
120 hectares of land
Belval is probably one of the largest development projects in Europe on an industrial wasteland. At the end there is an urban bridge, which connects the formerly rather rural community of Sanem with the second largest city in the country, Esch/Alzette. The development area extends over 120 hectares of land on the territory of two municipalities. Esch accounts for a third of this area, which is the area where the remains of the blast furnace plant are located. Belval-North and Belval-South are located in the Sanem municipal area, as well as most of the Square Mile district and the "Um Belval" park.
Now that Belval-North is almost completely built up, the preparations for the expansion of Belval-South are underway. Once completed, the two quarters are expected to be home to around 2,500 people. In total, the planners are expecting up to 7,000 people to live in the entire Belval area.
Current estimates assume that by 2027 Belval will be completed with a mix of science and work, leisure and housing. By then, the previously separate communities of Sanem and Esch will have practically merged territorially. In addition, the planners predict that in the end, around 20,000 people will live on the completed terrain. Be it that they live there, be it that they work, study or spend their leisure time there.
Agora not only plans the development, but also markets the site. The sale of the rare property of building land is the source of income for the development company, which is supported by the State of Luxembourg and ArcelorMittal and has around 20 employees. This is confirmed by city planner Rau: "There are no public subsidies. However, buyers must adhere to the respective development plans that Agora has developed together with the participating municipalities and the shareholders.
No one, whether investor or private developer, can do what he wants. In Belval-North, which is intended for 1,200 new residents, 800 new residents are already living there. In the Belval-South residential quarter, housing for 1,200 residents is to be built once again by 2027 in around 550 residential units. Marketing of the building plots is scheduled to begin in 2019, so that the first construction projects can be expected from 2020/2021. Until then the site will be prepared and developed in stages. While large building complexes around inner courtyards dominate in Belval North, the southern part, with ensembles of smaller groups of houses, alleys and squares, is more likely to attract families.
The demand for housing is high in a country where building land is expensive, housing is scarce and single-family homes are almost unaffordable. Agora therefore assumes that there will also be strong demand for the new residential area. "Our experience to date in marketing housing shows that the demand is huge. This applies both to interested parties from Luxembourg and the border region," says Simon. Figures prove statements like these for the entire Belval project - including what is already in place. Agora calculates in "gross floor area". So far, one million square meters of gross floor space have been sold, 400,000 square meters are still available.
There are limits
However, there are also self-imposed limits. "We're not concerned with just selling," Simon affirms, "we want quality in the neighbourhoods and that the mix of uses and generations works. The sales areas still available in the Belval Plaza complex show that sometimes it doesn't work either. However, Agora's hands are tied in this. The two buildings are owned by a private investor who is responsible for locating the shops. "This is beyond our control," says Simon.
Nevertheless, optimism prevails. The demand for shops and gastronomy will be there with so many people and the almost certain hope that everything will be occupied at some point, too.
Title: More than just a place to eat
DATE: 13.11.2018
"Food Lab" opened on the Belval campus.
Restopolis, the school and university caterer, yesterday opened a new restaurant on the university campus in Belval. The "Food Lab" with a capacity of 254 seats is the successor of the former "Brasserie des Sciences humaines" and is part of the "Meet, Eat & Study" concept.
The "Food Lab" is more than just a place to eat, it is a meeting place, a place to work and a place for lively modern exchanges, where students and staff of the Belval campus can meet in a convivial atmosphere over lunch or dinner.
There are 198 seats available on the ground floor. On the first floor there is a mezzanine with a dining area that can seat up to 56 people. The room also has an area equipped with microwave ovens, where guests with food allergies, for example, can heat their own dishes from home. "To prepare fresh, tasty and balanced dishes in the dining area, ingredients are used daily, preferably from local production and agriculture", as is assured. In fact, 32 percent of the products offered and processed by Restopolis come from local soils, four percent from organic farming.
On the occasion of yesterday's opening of the "Food Lab" 250 students were able to download vouchers for a free lunch from the Restopolis website.
The opening of the "Food Lab" was also an opportunity to present the new visual identity of the university restaurants on the Belval campus. This is in line with the name change of the other three Restopolis restaurants and cafeterias on campus. The University Restaurant becomes the "Food House", the "Café du Savoir" becomes the "Food Café" and the "Brasserie de l'Innovation" becomes the "Food Zone".
The 71 restaurants and 52 cafeterias of Restopolis will serve 17,000 dishes on weekdays. Restopolis was able to achieve an increase of 153 percent from 2005 to 2016.
Title: "The risk is too great": this is what the "study" of the Belval Fund on the blower hall showed
DATE: 24.5.2019
A study by the Belval Fund showed that the blower hall in Belval was not safe and could therefore not be used for the European Capital of Culture in 2022, said Green Minister of Culture Sam Tanson three weeks ago. Historian Denis Scuto had subsequently questioned the seriousness of the study in an interview with the daily newspaper. Our request to the Minister of Construction to see the study was rejected on the grounds of "authors' rights". Instead, the ministry offered us an interview with the director of the Belval Fund, Luc Dhamen. Before joining the Belval Fund in July 2015, Dhamen was Deputy Director of the "Administration des bâtiments publics".
Title: "A very big breakdown": Power failure in Esch/Alzette seems to be fixed
DATE: 10.7.2019
The Tageblatt editorial team was also affected: At 11:00 a.m., parts of Esch/Alzette suddenly went out. Everywhere in the city, private and business houses were without electricity until the afternoon. The reason for the breakdown was possibly a transformer fire."At 11.05 a.m. there was a breakdown at a medium-voltage switch in the rue de l'Usine," Addy Emmering, director of the municipal utilities, explained to the Tageblatt. The malfunction of the transformer probably triggered a voltage spike, which in turn caused other problems.
An employee of the electricity provider Suedstroum speaks of a "very big breakdown". According to Cédric Gantzer from the CGDIS control center, smoke rose from the transformer and firefighters extinguished the fire.
The fire in the rue de l'Usine triggered the chain reaction. Photo: Luc Laboulle
However, the failure of the device had apparently triggered a chain reaction. "At shortly after 12:00 noon, a fire broke out at another transformer at the entrance to the rue du Canal," says Gantzer. Several fire engines were on site to put out the fire. The second fire cut off the electricity supply to other parts of the city.
Fire at the roundabout in front of the rue du Canal: A transformer is also burning here. Photo: Editpress
Also parts of the city centre of Esch were without electricity. The supermarket chain Delhaize and the bakery Namur closed their shops as a result. Also the city hall of Escher was without electricity. "This is a major incident," says Escher's mayor Georges Mischo. "Every time we try to fix something, something flies away in another place." How the chain reaction happened, Misho does not yet know. "We have used all our resources to find the fault." He said human lives were not in danger.
"A total of 1,300 connections are affected," explains Georges Misho. However, the search for the cause is proving difficult. But Mischo says the breakdown has nothing to do with the fact that the power grid is outdated. The fire at the distributor in the rue de l'Usine is not the cause either, but a consequence of the chain reactions. Four teams are currently on duty to repair all breakdowns.
Rumors that Esch will be without power for several days are contradicted by Suedstroum in the early afternoon. "This is not true - it will take some time, but not days", a spokeswoman explains. Mayor Mischo also says: "It will not be a matter that will be solved in the next 20 minutes - it could take the whole afternoon."
Around 3 pm the situation in Esch seems to improve. In the affected neighbourhoods, electricity is flowing through the lines again. Whether all breakdowns have been solved, Suedstrom could not say at this time.
Slight smoke poisoning
The transformer fire on the route de Belval resulted in heavy smoke development, as Cédric Gantzer of CGDIS confirmed to the Tageblatt. Two people had to be taken to Escher hospital for a check-up because of mild smoke inhalation. However, this was not an "extraordinary incident".
Sudstroum and the community of Esch were unable to provide more detailed information about this incident when asked.
Title: A "beach" for Esch/Alzette
DATE: 2.4.2019
Lost Frequencies will perform in Esch on 14 June. This is one of the highlights of the "beach", Wicki Beach, which is scheduled to open in mid-May.
More than five years after the last edition of Esch-Plage, Esch/Alzette gets a party beach again. This with the help of the team of "Wicki Beach". Partygoers from the southern region were familiar with the event "Wicky Beach" in Wickringen for years. But for the local residents it was a horror at times.
In the summer months, up to 1,600 people sometimes met here on an artificial beach, at a now closed inn, for after-work or just to party. This led to occasional and regular traffic chaos in the tranquil village of Wickringen.
But then it was over, the café had to make way for a real estate project.
"A win-win situation"
On Tuesday, the Escher Board of Aldermen presented the new concept of the event together with the organizers of Wiki Beach. The sandy beach is expected to open by the middle of May until the end of September. This time, however, on the premises of the company Cloos, near the former workers' housing estate Esch-Belval."Esch will thus be enriched by one more attraction", Mayor Georges Mischo is pleased to announce, and Alderman Mandy Ragni adds that this is another building block in attracting more activities to the southern region with a view to the European Capital of Culture Esch 2022.
More than just after work
It is planned that Wicki-Beach will be open from Wednesday to Saturday from 5 p.m. to midnight and on Sundays until 10 p.m., depending on the weather. But Wicki-Beach should not only be a place to hang out or do some after-work, there will also be concerts here. So on June 14th, the Belgian DJ Lost Frequencies will be a guest at Wicki Beach and will thus perform in Luxembourg for the first time.
At "normal" Wicki Beach events up to 2,000 guests will be able to participate. Concerts, on the other hand, could accommodate up to 4,500 spectators on the 1,300 square metre site.
Avoiding nuisance for neighbours
The responsible persons and the Escher council of lay assessor do not believe that there could be similar problems with the neighbours as once in Wickringen. "We are not a disco", says organiser Luc Frings. They will never apply for a "Fraei Nuecht", because it always ends at midnight at the latest.
And traffic chaos should not occur because of Wicki Beach. 130 parking spaces are available on the premises. 50 more are in the immediate vicinity, so they say.A bus stop is located directly at the entrance. From there, there will be a shuttle bus service to the Belval-Université station, where there is also a parking garage. Larger buses will also be used for larger events.
The organizers also point out that the Esch-Brill parking garage is located only a few minutes' walk from Wicki Beach.
No "Bling-Bling"
Wicki Beach fits to Esch, underlines mayor Georges Mischo. A kind of village of shipping containers is currently being built on the site. "It's no bling bling," Misho says.The sand for the beach between the containers will be delivered soon. It comes from the former blower hall in Belval, where the exhibition "All we need" was held in 2007 to mark the cultural year. At that time it served as an underground and has been stored there ever since. 
Title: "Record year" for Agora - Belval development company takes stock
DATE: 5.7.2019
2018 was a record year for the public-private development company Agora, which is owned equally by the state and ArcelorMittal. Agora sold plots of land with a total area of 43,500 square metres last year. At 17 million euros, the company achieved its highest profit in 2018 since 2014 (19 million). 
Agora estimates that at the end of 2018, around 17,000 people travelled on Belval. Besides 3,000 residents and 5,700 students, the development company has 8,500 employees. Compared to the figures presented by Agora last year, the number of people in employment would thus have increased by 3,500 in just one year.
2018 is a record year in terms of land sales, Agora President Frank Vansteenkiste explained yesterday at a press conference in Belval. Last year, the public-private development company sold plots of land with a total area of 43,500 square metres to developers and investors. Vansteenkiste did not want to answer the question of the income from these sales by referring to the "trade secret". Until 2009, Agora had sold the plots below price in order to get Belval going. In the meantime, the company is making a profit, last year it was 17 million euros compared to 11 million in 2017. 2018's turnover was 31.3 million euros, almost seven million euros higher than in 2017.
Ambitions for 98.00 square metres
Agora still has to invest a total of 100 million euros in road construction on Belval, explained Vansteenkiste, who is a full-time traffic planner in the "ministère de la Mobilité et des Travaux publics". In particular, the "Belval Sud" area bordering on Beles, where single-family homes are to be built, still needs to be developed. By 2027, 550 residential units are to be built here.
In the next few years, the central area of the quarter will be developed, where mainly shops, services and apartments will be built. Agora is currently in the process of negotiating the sale of 98,000 square meters of space in this area, said Agora director Vincent Delwiche. Delwiche announced that the construction work in the area of the sinter basins will begin shortly. The "Square Mile" open-air car park, which is currently still in this area, is to be gradually closed from the beginning of 2020.
Building bridges between Belval and Esch
The cars will gradually be banned from Belval and give way to public transport and cycling, announced Frank Vansteenkiste. In order to provide better access to Esch's city centre, the Road Administration will build a bridge for pedestrians and bicycles over the still active steelworks site to the Losch garage. The bridge will probably be made of steel and ideally be completed by the cultural year 2022.
The opening of the entire Micheville Liaison is also expected by 2022, Delwiche said. The highway bridge over the route d'Esch before Beles is to be completed this year.
Esch-Schifflingen
The "second mainstay" of Agora is the industrial wasteland Esch-Schifflingen, which has been developed since 2016. After a design workshop with four international teams and with the participation of the citizens, a jury selected the design of the Danish team COBE Architects, in which the Luxembourg engineering office Luxplan S.A. is also involved, as the winner at the beginning of April. The projects will be exhibited to the public in autumn. The final decision should be made at the beginning of 2020. In two years' time, the first excavators could be rolling, and the first partial development plans could enter the procedure around 2022 or 2023, estimates Vansteenkiste.
Title: Moellerei becomes new blower hall: Ten alternative locations in Belval for the European Capital of Culture
DATE: 21.6.2019
Just one and a half hours before the topical hour requested by the LSAP on Friday afternoon on the protection of industrial heritage in the Chamber, Minister of Culture Sam Tanson ("déi gréng"), together with the Belval Fund, presented the alternative locations to the Blower Hall for the European Capital of Culture. Instead of one building, in future the entire blast furnace terrace on Belval will be used and "played" as headquarters. The most important location will be the former burden house, which still needs to be renovated.
Contrary to the original plan in the bidbook, the blast furnace hall on Belval cannot be used as headquarters for the European Capital of Culture 2022, presumably for security reasons. This was announced by the Green Minister of Culture at the end of April. Instead, Sam Tanson and the Director of the Belval Fund, Luc Dhamen, presented ten alternative locations on Friday afternoon. Actually, the Fonds Belval, in cooperation with the people responsible for Esch 2022, has created a completely new concept. Instead of the blower hall, the "Cité des sciences" is now to be "played" on Belval, as Dhamen put it. The entire blast furnace terrace is to be converted into a pedestrian zone and become the headquarters of the Capital of Culture.
The offices of the employees of "Esch 2022" are to be housed in a new building on a meadow in front of the blower hall. The use of the "Massenoire" and the "Halle des poches à fonte" will be shared by Fonds Belval and "Esch 2022" during the cultural year. The yellow skip pavilion at the Raemerich roundabout will be transported to Belval and revived. Open facilities on the blast furnace terrace, such as the so-called "Halle couverte" with the water basins or the central square between the two blast furnaces, will be used for open-air festivals or "all kinds of events". A culture café is to be set up in a previously inaccessible space. The badly damaged base of blast furnace C will be stabilized and integrated into the concept.
Current topics with digital technologies
But the capital of the European Capital of Culture is to become the Moellerei. At least the smaller part of the whole building, which is not yet renovated and occupied by the university library ("Maison des livres"). The character of the Moellerei should be preserved, said Dhamen. The coke silos should also be used. Although the roof and windows of the Moellerei are in poor condition, the building is to be renovated in a minimalist manner and made handicapped accessible, as Luc Dhamen explained. The site would remain open in principle, he said, and only one way of closing it if necessary would be found.
The "Plancher de coulée" above the "Halle des poches à fonte" will be slightly renovated. The Belval Fund wants to connect it to the upper level of the Moellerei by a pedestrian bridge, thus making it a unique exhibition space. The Moellerei is so far the only place on Belval for which an artistic concept already exists. The interior of the building, which was once used to store mixtures of ore and coke for iron production in the blast furnace, is to become a so-called "digital space" in 2022, as the artistic director of "Esch 2022", Christian Mosar, explained. Current topics are to be presented there using digital technologies. Through these projections, the burdening plant itself is to become an exhibit, Mosar said. The concept of "Augmented" or "Mixed Reality" will also be used.
But time is pressing. It was only on Wednesday that the government council gave the green light for the bill to renovate the required buildings on Belval. This bill must now be drafted and submitted to the Chamber for a vote. Only then can the planning, studies and then the tenders and public procedures be carried out. If everything goes well, there will then be one more year for the construction work, because the buildings should be ready for the European Capital of Culture by the end of 2021 at the latest. "It would be good if we could start work in mid-2020," said Dhamen.
Challenge: renovation
The greatest challenge will be the renovation of the Moellerei. Both the roof and the windows were in poor condition and would have to be replaced, Dhamen knew. Although the burden house was built around 1910, it was renovated at the end of the 1960s, so the building fabric should not be too bad.
How much the renovation of the Moellerei and the installation of the other structures will cost will only become clear when the bill is presented. The general director of "Esch 2022", Nancy Braun, was very enthusiastic about the new concept on Friday. According to the mayor of Esch, Georges Mischo, Nancy Braun and himself successfully defended their concept before the jury of the EU Commission in Romania a few weeks ago.
Mischo announced that a project for "Esch 2022" would also be implemented on the "Lentille Terre Rouge". He did not yet want to reveal which project it is and where exactly it will take place.
The Culture Terrace
Because the Belval Fund fears that the renovation of the blower hall cannot be completed in two and a half years, it has joined forces with those responsible for "Esch 2022" to look for an alternative solution for the headquarters of the European Capital of Culture. The result is a new framework that provides for the use of a large part of the blast furnace terrace.
At the heart of this concept is the not yet renovated section of the Moellerei (the rest of this building already houses the university library), which will be connected to the "Plancher de coulée" by a bridge. A "digital space" is to be created in this area. New spaces are to be created here using digital technologies. What will happen in 2022 at the other nine locations is still unclear. The "Halle des poches à fonte" and the "Massenoire" must share "Esch 2022" with the Fonds Belval.
Title: Culture and urban development in Esch sur Alzette
DATE: 2.10.2019
"Whoever does what he can already do will always be what he already is."
Since the launch of alwin (active vacancy management Wittlich city centre) in October 2016, the city of Wittlich has been the focus of attention nationwide for its exemplary vacancy development.
Thanks to the nationwide positive reporting, municipalities and cities became aware of the alwin concept from Wittlich. The subsequent numerous enquiries from neighbouring cities and municipalities in Rhineland-Palatinate (including Andernach, Neuwied, Trier, Bernkastel-Kues, Pruem) and other cities in North Rhine-Westphalia, Hesse, Thuringia, Schleswig-Holstein and many more have shown that many small, medium-sized and even regional centres throughout Germany are facing similar challenges. The delegation from Esch-sûr- Alzette, interested in possible solutions, which visited Wittlich in May this year, confirms the change and temporary loss of function of the city centre beyond the German borders - also and even in the neighbouring Grand Duchy of Luxembourg, which has a high purchasing power.
On Wednesday, September 11, 2019, Mayor Joachim Rodenkirch, together with town planner Thomas Eldagsen, business developer Rainer Wener and alwin project manager Verena Kartz, accepted the (counter-)invitation to Esch an der Alzette. After the warm welcome in the "Hôtel de Ville", the town hall of the town, a report on the urban development of the responsible town planner from the founding of the town to the current state of development of the district "Esch Belval", with the establishment of a university and science park. All those responsible now see the great task in the physical and psychological networking of science, industry and culture. Literally "...new bridges must be built so that all inhabitants are taken along in the process" (Georges Mischo, Mayor of the city of Esch-sûr-Alzette).
The fact that Esch, as the second largest city in Luxembourg, has the title of "European Capital of Culture 2022" together with Kaunas (Lithuania) can certainly act as a driving force. The "European Capital of Culture" is a title awarded annually by the European Union (since 2004 to at least two cities). It involves the ProSud association with eleven southern municipalities and the CCPHVA (Communité des communes du Pays Haut Val d'Alzette) on the French side. The designation is intended to help highlight the richness, diversity and commonalities of Europe's cultural heritage and to enable European citizens to understand each other better. 
Title: Velo-Express
DATE: 16.12.2019
From the new cycle path network law, the high-speed cycle paths stand out in particular - an overview
December is not exactly known as the top month for cyclists. However, the bicycle has seldom been so prominently in the foreground as in this December. The main reason for this was the amendment to the 2015 law on the cycle path network (file number 7371), which all 60 members of parliament supported last Wednesday. It sets the framework for an expansion of the network from around 650 kilometres today to over 1,100 to... It does not specify a specific time target, but it can be assumed that this will be achieved in the next five to six years, given that the bicycle is an essential pillar of the national mobility strategy. Under Modu 2.0, ten percent of journeys between home and work are to be made by bicycle by 2025, compared with five percent in 2017, and the percentage of journeys between home and school is even to be increased from three percent in 2017 to 15 percent in 2025. The overall length of the cycle path network, which still has far too many gaps, says little about these goals: The offer must be right and attractive where such economies of scale can be achieved and the connection to other mobility options - especially public transport - must be optimal. And that is especially true in the conurbations. There where there is already a lack of space. Mobility Minister François Bausch, who relies a lot on the bicycle as an everyday means of mobility, recalled in his speech on the new cycle path network how, as the capital city's deputy mayor, he had to "fight battles" for every metre of cycle track. After all, what is relatively easy to plan into new infrastructures can sometimes be difficult with existing ones - and is always "at someone else's expense".
In order to improve planning, the new law makes some things clearer, but Minister Bausch is strengthening the relevant departments in his ministry and at the Road Construction Administration and even wants to create a "guichet unique", which is intended to provide practical and efficient assistance to local authorities in particular when it comes to cycle paths.
PC 103 and PC 104
The new law provides for the creation of several express cycle routes between the capital and the south of the country, more specifically between the main station and Esch-Alzette, and between the main station and Bettemburg.
The law defines the express cycle route as "a structuring and fast connection between conurbations". The expressways should be 3.5 to 4.5 metres wide, have a maximum gradient of six percent and - very important - cyclists should not encounter any other motorised vehicles on them, with the exception of one or two agricultural machines.
The two expressways even already have numbers: PC103 - "liaison cyclable express entre Luxembourg-Cloche d'Or et Bettembourg, assurant l'accès vers les itinéraires cyclables PC1, P6, PC11a et PC37" and PC104 - "liaison cyclable express entre le pôle d'échanges Hollerich, le pôle d'échanges Bouillon, le pôle d'échanges Cloche d'Or, the French French Railway Station, Esch-sur-Alzette - Gare, assuring the access to the itineraries of the PC1, PC6, PC6a, PC9, PC10, PC33, PC35b, PC36 and PC38 cyclists, and the PC104a antenna assuring the access via Luxembourg's helper bridge to the itineraries of the PC13, PC13a and PC35b cyclists".
First project around 2023
Sounds complicated and it is, because a lot of connections to other cycle paths have to be made. However, the main lines of the express routes are supposed to run along the motorways. The PC103 to Bettemburg has been thought along with the widening of the A3 and should be inaugurated in 2023.
The PC104, which is currently in the planning phase, will therefore run along the A4 for about 20 of its 27.8 kilometers. The route should be fully drivable around 2027/2028, when the express tram arrives in Foetz. This is what the mobility minister wants.
The law puts the total length of the planned express cycle routes at 35.3 kilometres, the general average price per kilometre of cycle track at 587,000 euros and the maintenance costs for the express routes at 3,500 euros per kilometre per year.
Whether and how the express cycle routes are accepted by the public is, of course, another matter. Abroad - especially in Germany and the Netherlands - they are becoming more and more successful thanks to electric bikes.
Title: Belval: 35 million invested for Esch 2022
DATE: 2.4.2020
Parliament has given its assent. 35 million will be invested in Belval for the European Capital of Culture Esch 2022. But time is running out.
There is not much time left. In two years, Esch and the southern region will bear the title of European Capital of Culture. Until then, a total of nine buildings in Belval are to be newly erected, converted or even moved. 
In order to guarantee this financing, the parliament on Tuesday unanimously approved a financing law amounting to 35.3 million euros. 
Central role for Moellerei
Among the construction projects is the restoration of the part of the former Moellerei that was not converted into the university library. 
As rapporteur Carlo Back (Déi Gréng) explained, the building where once the iron ore preparations and coke charges for the blast furnace were prepared is to become the "main square of the cultural programme" of Esch 2022. 
Digital space and blast furnace culture
On the one hand, it is to house a "digital space". This should become "an incubator of new cultural forms", says Carlo Back. 
375 square metres of exhibition space, distributed over several levels, will be created there. On the other hand, it is also intended to give visitors a better understanding of how the blast furnace works. 
Skip before the move
It is also planned that the Skip building, which is currently located in Raemerich, will move to Belval. There are also plans to build a bridge between the Moellerei and the casting hall of blast furnace A. 
In addition, rooms for the Esch 2022 team will be built in modular constructions in front of the blast hall. 
The culture of the minett
"The Moellerei will become the heart of Esch 2022," predicted Pim Knaff (DP). The new member of parliament and Esch's cultural juror had been sworn in shortly before in parliament. He did not miss the opportunity to speak on Esch 2022. 
"The culture of the minett is anchored in mines and melts", said Pim Knaff. Large striking buildings, such as the blast furnaces, have shaped the landscape and are today witness to an "important part of the country's history".
By 2022, these buildings will "be both the backdrop and the object of debate," he predicted. 
And the blower hall?
While Serge Wilmes (CSV) and Gast Gibéryen (ADR) only had words of praise for the planned investments, Marc Goergen (Pirates) took up the cudgels for more decentralisation.
Dan Biancalana (LSAP), for his part, pointed out that besides Belval, there are other locations in the south with industrial buildings that are worth investing in.
Investment is not compensation
Marc Baum (Déi Lénk) also went into this, albeit somewhat more critically. He recalled the projects of repairing the blower hall in Belval and building film studios in Duedelingen.
He stressed that the upcoming investments in Belval should not be seen as compensation for these unrealized projects.
Blower hall to be retained
The Minister for Public Works, François Bausch (Déi Gréng), then made it clear that the government wanted to preserve the blower hall. However, the analyses had shown that the workload was so great that they could not be completed by 2022.
The alternative proposals presented by the Director of the Belval Fund were found to be good. These projects had been implemented "one way or another", François Bausch added.
They were actually only brought forward now for the Cultural Year. "But the other projects are not forgotten," he assured us.
Over 600 proposals for Esch 2022
Minister of Culture Sam Tanson (Déi Gréng) referred to the convention, which was recently signed with the CNCI, an association that promotes industrial goods. "They have the blower hall very clearly on the screen," she said.
She went on to say that the Esch 2022 team was involved in 606 projects.
When asked, Esch 2022 Director General Nancy Braun said that 265 of these had been completed. 61 additional ones have been evaluated by the "Comité de lecture" of Esch 2022, but are still waiting for a statement from the board of directors of the association.
Another 280 still have to be evaluated by the Comité de Lecture and by the Board of Directors. Nancy Braun also refers to the forthcoming press conference on February 20. "It will be a surprise," she promises.
Title: Capital of Culture / 35.33 million euro for renovation work before "Esch 2022
DATE: 29.1.2020
EUR 35,33 million will be allocated to the renovation of the blast furnace terrace for 'Esch 2022' in Esch-Belval. The parliamentary committee for public works will now discuss the details of the financing plan on Thursday morning, according to the Chamber of Deputies. The final vote on the financing law in parliament is expected to take place next week.
The parliamentary committee for public works is to discuss the financing of the premises of "Esch 2022" in Belval on Thursday morning. 35.33 million euros have been earmarked for them. If the text of the law is approved by the committee, the budget for the adaptation work can be voted on in the Chamber as early as next week before the launch of the "European Capital of Culture 2022" project. Among others, the Moellerei, the Massenoire, the "Plancher de Coulée" and the Skip will be included in the project.
According to project manager Nancy Braun, the European Capital of Culture 2022 will give the inhabitants of the region around Esch the opportunity to actively participate in the project across borders under the motto "Remix Culture". Further details are to be published at a press conference on 20 February.
Title: IBA Alzette-Belval / Luxembourg and France want international building exhibition
DATE: 28.1.2020
International building exhibitions are not for DIY enthusiasts. It is about planning, regional planning and also about architecture and politics. Luxembourg and France are preparing an exhibition in the border area. There are also considerations in the greater region.
Luxembourg and France are planning a ten-year International Building Exhibition (IBA) in the border area of the former Luxembourg steel metropolis Esch/Alzette. The preliminary planning will officially begin on Thursday, Dorothée Habay-Lê, Director of the European Grouping for Territorial Cooperation Alzette-Belval, told the German Press Agency in Audun-le-Tiche, France, on Tuesday. The planning should be completed by the end of 2021. Once all the partners had given their approval, the IBA Alzette-Belval would then be planned for the years 2022 to 2032.
"The idea is to implement major spatial planning projects together", Habay-Lê said. "The IBA is a further step towards integrated cooperation". The region around the town of Esch, which lies directly on the border with France and will be the European Capital of Culture in 2022, has "always been very much turned towards France", Habay-Lê said. Cross-border cooperation has existed since 1990, and since 2012 there has also been the Grouping for Territorial Cooperation (GECT). "With the IBA, we can implement cross-border projects that are of direct benefit to our territory".
The plan for the Alzette-Belval international building exhibition came about independently of a proposal by Saarland's Prime Minister Tobias Hans (CDU) for an international building exhibition in the Greater Region, Habay-Lê said. Hans, who also chairs the Greater Region with almost twelve million inhabitants in Saarland, Rhineland-Palatinate, Luxembourg, Lorraine and Belgian Wallonia, is aiming for a decision by the region's heads of government at the end of 2020. His presidency of the Greater Region will then also end.
Information on financing not yet available
One had heard about the Saarland's considerations and had therefore already met several times with Saarland representatives, said Habay-Lê. "Everyone has his own project. But the idea is to maybe work together on certain issues." There are undoubtedly very local issues as well as issues that are of interest far beyond the Luxembourg-French border. "We want to cooperate as much as possible." More detailed proposals would have to be worked out in the preliminary planning that was now beginning.
It is not yet possible to provide information on the financing of the IBA Alzette-Belval. The financial requirements could only be estimated after the preliminary planning stage. "We have very strong political support", said the director of the Association for Territorial Cooperation. The grouping was set up by the Luxembourg and French governments and supported by four Luxembourg municipalities and four French local authorities. The preliminary planning, which will begin on Thursday at the Luxembourg University of Belval, a stone's throw from the border, is based on the expectation "that there will be a concrete outcome in 2022".
Building exhibitions see themselves as experimental fields for planning and building. Since the first International Building Exhibition in Darmstadt in 1901, there have been building exhibitions in Berlin, the Ruhr area, Brandenburg, Hamburg, Saxony-Anhalt, Heidelberg, Thuringia and Stuttgart, among others, but also in Basel, Limburg (Netherlands) and Vienna.
Title: Esch/Alzette / Belval Plaza changes hands
DATE: 10.3.2020
The Belval Plaza shopping center has a new owner. It was sold to the asset manager Firce Capital for an undisclosed sum.
"We are very pleased to complete this important acquisition in Luxembourg with local and international partners", says Christophe Fournage, Chairman of Firce Capital, according to the company's announcement. "The Belval Plaza shopping centre is located in the heart of a catchment area of 225,000 people with high purchasing power (29,000 euros per year) and has an enormous potential for development and growth".
Since the arrival of the university and the train station and due to the growing local population and the attractiveness of the shops, the shopping mall Belval Plaza is developing into the new heart of the city of Esch, the company writes in its press release.
With 6.5 million visitors per year, 37,150 square meters of space and 1,200 parking spaces, Belval Plaza is one of the largest shopping malls in Luxembourg, Firce Capital further explains the purchase. Located in Esch/Alzette, Luxembourg's second largest city, the Belval Plaza shopping center benefits from a strategic location. It is directly connected to the railway station and is located about 20 minutes from Luxembourg City via the A4 and a few minutes from France. It offers a wide selection of international brands.
Firce Capital was founded in 2012 and is an asset manager specialising in developments and investments in the European property sector. The company works primarily for institutional investors, sovereign wealth funds and family offices. Firce Capital has offices in France, Luxembourg and Spain.
The acquisition was completed with investment partners such as Savile Capital and Rebus, the company further announced.
Title: Firce Capital acquires Belval Plaza shopping centre in Luxembourg
DATE: 10.3.2020
The acquisition was made with investment partners including Savile Capital and Rebus. It was financed by Banque Internationale à Luxembourg, with, as arranger, SCOR Investment Partners SE, China Construction Bank Europe SA and Bank of China Limited.
With 6.5 million visitors per year, 37,150 m² and 1,200 parking spaces, Belval Plaza is one of the largest shopping centres in Luxembourg. Located in Esch-sur-Alzette, the second largest city in Luxembourg, the Belval Plaza shopping centre benefits from a strategic location. Directly connected to the railway station, it is located nearly 20 minutes from Luxembourg City by the A4 and a few minutes from France by the D16.  It offers a large selection of international brands such as Action, Alain Afflelou, Camaieu, Chaussea, Delhaize, Esprit, Etam, Grand Optical, H&M, Leonidas, New Yorker, Saturn, Tally Weijl, Tamaris, Trafic ...
Since the arrival of the university and the train station, the Belval Plaza shopping centre is becoming the real heart of the town of Esch sur Alzette, given the attractiveness of physical commerce in Luxembourg (+3.2% in 2019) and the strong growth of the working population, both Luxembourg and cross-border.  
Christophe Fournage, Chairman of Firce Capital, explains "We are very pleased to have been able to finalise this important acquisition in Luxembourg with local and international partners. Located in the heart of a catchment area of 225,000 people, with a high purchasing power (29,000 euros per year), the Belval Plaza shopping centre has enormous potential for development and growth.
Title: Belval Blast Furnaces
DATE: 1.1.2020
In the heart of the campus of the University of Luxembourg, surrounded by the modern buildings of the Luxembourg Institute of Science and Technology, stand two tall blast furnaces. These holdovers from the region’s industrial past recall a time when Luxembourg was one of Europe’s principal sources of iron ore.
At the time of its independence in 1867, the landlocked Grand Duchy of Luxembourg was one of the poorest nations in Europe. However, during the 20th century, a competitive steel industry is developed in the southwestern part of the country along the border of France—an area known as the “red lands.” Much of Luxembourg’s current prosperity was built on the exploitation of the region’s rich stores of iron ore. Despite its small size, Luxembourg was once the seventh-largest iron producer in the world. It was one of the six founding members of the European Coal and Steel Community, which laid the early foundations for the European Union.
Around 1910, the forest surrounding the small town of Esh-sur-Alzette was cut down to build Belval’s ironworks. More than 3,000 men worked at the site, which was home to three massive blast furnaces. In 1993, a switch was made to electric furnaces, and in 1997, the country’s last active blast furnace was shut down for good. As the steel industry in Luxembourg declined, the economy diversified into production of construction materials, engineering, and chemical manufacturing. The furnaces of Belval were integrated into the main campus of the University of Luxembourg.
Since 2014, the furnaces have been open to the public, who can follow the self-guided tour to learn more about their functioning and the history of the iron industry in the region. Moreover, it is possible to climb up to a 40-meter (131-foot) platform on the furnace “A”, to the level of the feedstock inlet, and discover an impressive panorama on the region. The furnaces are also open several nights a year, during which visitors are able to roam the furnaces with hard helmets and frontal lamps.
Title: Belval, Luxembourg: the unlikely test bed for brownfield revival
DATE: 2.3.2019
The steelworks site has been transformed — but not without difficulty
In the south of Luxembourg, along the border with France, a former steelworks site is offering a template for brownfield redevelopment that according to its advocates is attracting interest from observers across Europe. For a century, Belval was a massive steelworks site operated by Arbed, now part of ArcelorMittal, with six blast furnaces and employing thousands of people at its peak in the 1960s and 1970s. Now the site situated between the country’s second city, Esch-sur-Alzette, and neighbouring Sanem is home to Luxembourg’s university, its only purpose-built rock music venue, and a thriving start-up scene. “We have already seen visitors come from countries such as Belgium and Poland to understand how we did it,” says Gilles Feider, vice-chairman of Agora, the public-private partnership redeveloping the site. “And it is still a work in progress.” After the steelmaker switched to electric steel production and shut down its blast furnaces, Agora was created in 2000 to create a new urban district on the site. First came the Rockhal, which opened in 2005 to host large-scale pop music concerts by the likes of Mariah Carey, Bryan Adams and Shakira. This was followed by an office opening for Banque Internationale à Luxembourg and a commercial complex with shopping mall, cafés, restaurants and a multiplex cinema. Belval will eventually also include housing for 7,000 people. Two blast furnaces remain on the site as a symbol of the area’s industrial heritage and a tourist attraction, renovated and maintained by the state. “Originally, we thought we could complete the project in 15 years, but ultimately it will be more like 25.” says Mr Feider. “In the beginning it was difficult to attract developers to the site, but today there is no longer a problem.” He acknowledges that there was concern over a development seen as too far and too isolated from Luxembourg City, the country’s economic hub. Critical mass has come with the establishment in Belval of the main campus of the University of Luxembourg and a railway connection. A biomedicine facility was the first to open in Belval in 2011, with the first undergraduates arriving in September 2015. “The university gave us the final impulsion that we needed, to bring the diversity of young people and their teachers alongside the people living and working there,” Mr Feider says. “Today we also have retirement homes, so all parts of society are represented. In the past the commercial centre was fairly empty at weekends, but now it is full of people.”
Residents, students and local workers say the project has its teething troubles. Undergraduates complain that there is insufficient accommodation available nearby and a shortage of affordable entertainment as well as a lack of green spaces. In common with much of Luxembourg, Belval suffers from a shortage of car parking and big events at the Rockhal create large traffic jams. Mr Feider acknowledges that there is still work to do. “In the middle the Belval Square Mile, the heart of the whole site, is only now being developed.” Belval’s aim is to create synergies between the university and the Technoport incubator facility, installed in a former steel industry site under the guidance of Luxinnovation, the national innovation agency. These efforts are starting to bear fruit, according to Patrizia Luchetta, an adviser to IT and biotech businesses setting up in Luxembourg, many of which have premises in Belval. “It was a political decision to put the university in Belval, and it’s hard to start something like that from scratch, but it is amazing what they have achieved,” she says. The Technoport is largely full, while the intended mingling between those working at the university and adjacent industrial zones is occurring, adds Ms Luchetta. taking off. “While it’s true that Belval is still less lively at weekends than the city, it’s just a matter of time.” Mr Feider says the Belval project has had to be self-financing. “Agora is not a promoter that needs to make a particular margin, but the project should at least pay for itself and make a bit of profit,” he says. “Over time we moved out of the red and into the black.” Lessons from Belval will be applied to the redevelopment of another former steelworks site a few miles to the east in Schifflange, he adds. “In Belval some stakeholders felt left out, especially the general public, so the planning process will be more open for Schifflange.”
Title: From industrial landscape to City of Science: A portrait of Belval
DATE: 25.11.2019
The rebirth of a steel community in Luxembourg
With a finance sector that accounts for a quarter of its GDP, Luxembourg is arguably as famous for its bankers as for its multilingualism. The Grand Duchy, with a population of just over 600,000, is home to 141 banks as well as the European Investment Bank, and its investment funds manage over EUR 4 trillion, making it the world’s second-largest investment center and the largest in Europe. Luxembourg’s eponymous capital city forms the epicenter of its finance industry, but a mere 15 kilometers down the Alzette river lie the remnants of another pillar of its prosperity in days gone by. In the south of the country, along the French border, lie the Terres Rouges – roughly translated as “Red Lands” or “Land of the Red Rocks” – named after the iron ore deposits that painted a rusty facade over the region’s terrain and gave rise to the steel industry.
It was regions like the Terres Rouges that gave rise to the European Coal and Steel Community, one of the forerunners of today’s European Union. In 1960, at the height of a postwar economic boom driven by steel production, the iron and steel industry contributed 31 percent of Luxembourg’s GDP – more than finance does today – and steel production grew sixfold between 1945 and 1974. But the steel crisis of the 1970s drove many steel producers out of business, and Luxembourg started to shift the weight of its economy towards finance and its center of gravity towards the capital.
Yet it’s also the Terres Rouges that’s now playing host to an up-and-coming third pillar of Luxembourg’s economy: research and innovation. The last steel blast furnaces, located in the Belval neighborhood of Luxembourg’s second-largest city, Esch-sur-Alzette, closed in 1997, leaving behind 120 hectares of brownfield land. What followed was one of the country’s most ambitious revitalization projects to create the Cité des Sciences (City of Science), home to the main campus of the University of Luxembourg since 2015, as well as a startup incubator and a number of other research institutes.
Rather than simply being demolished to make room for a university campus, two of the three blast furnaces remain standing – one of which is open to the public as a museum – and serve as mementos to the region’s history and heritage, much as the university’s shiny new buildings represent its desired future. Completing the juxtaposition is a red office tower that houses both the Banque Internationale à Luxembourg (BIL) and RBC Investor Services – a nod to the main driving force behind the Luxembourgish economy today.
The Cité has yet to fully rise from the ashes of industrial Belval, with a number of faculties yet to relocate from the university’s other campuses in Luxembourg City. The groundwork, though, has been laid for a burgeoning community of over 6,000 students and around 2,000 faculty and staff, most of whom are already based in Belval – with economic and social benefits for a wider region still recovering from the effects of deindustrialization. Providing a vital touch of cultural life, and perhaps serving as its biggest draw for visitors, is Rockhal, Luxembourg’s largest live music venue, with three concert halls as well as studios and other facilities to support the local music scene.
That half-hour commute between the Terres Rouges and Luxembourg City is one that connects two increasingly divergent worlds that nonetheless form the building blocks of modern Luxembourg: that of finance and of industry; that of the present and of the past. Yet among the red rocks of southern Luxembourg, a small community is bucking the trend of deindustrialization and finding a new role for itself in an ever more globalized world.
Title: Luxembourg government to invest €1.3 billion into education infrastructures
DATE: 4.7.2019
The government announced that it intends to invest €1.3 billion into school infrastructures over the next few years.Minister for Public Works François Bausch and Minister of Education Claude Meisch announced on Thursday morning that the state would invest in opening two completely new schools in the next four to eight years. Additionally, the state will build a further eight buildings for currently existing schools, with the most notable examples being the Sportlycée (Sports secondary school) or the Lycée Michel Lucius.
The funding will also cover pilot project schools in the south of the country, namely in Belval and Esch-sur-Alzette, and a state European school in the capital. The Geesseknaeppchen campus and a further five projects will be expanded or redeveloped.
The ministers also detailed schools moving: the ENAD - the National School for Adults - will move to Mersch and the new Sportlycée is likely to move to Mamer or the current Eurocontrol site in Kirchberg.
The government has expressed its investment objective as improving the diversity of Luxembourg's educational offer in order to meet the country's needs and explore both innovative and inclusive pedagogical concepts.
Titel: Restopolis opens its new restaurant "Food Lab" on the Belval campus 
DATE: 12.11.2018
Restopolis, the school and university catering service of the Ministry of National Education, Children and Youth, will open a new restaurant on 12 November 2018 on the university campus in Belval.
The Food Lab, with a capacity of 254 seats, is the successor to the former Brasserie des Sciences humaines and is part of the Meet, Eat & Study concept.
More than just a restaurant, the Food Lab is a modern meeting, work and exchange space where students and staff of the Belval campus can meet in a convivial atmosphere over lunch or a snack.
On the ground floor, a distribution line, cash registers and 198 seats have been made available to guests. On the first floor there is a mezzanine with a dining room that can accommodate up to 56 people. This room also has an area equipped with microwave ovens in which guests with food allergies can heat up their own "homemade" dishes.
The fresh, tasty and balanced dishes are prepared daily using ingredients which, as far as possible, come from local production and agriculture. In fact, 32% of the products sold and prepared by the chefs of Restopolis come from the local area, 4% are organic.
To celebrate the opening of the Food Lab on 12 November 2018, 250 students were able to download vouchers for a free lunch from the Restopolis website.
The opening of the Food Lab is also an opportunity to present the new visual identity of the university restaurants on the Belval campus, which goes hand in hand with the renaming of the three other restaurants and cafeterias managed by Restopolis on campus.
The University Restaurant becomes Food House, the Café du Savoir becomes Food Café and the Brasserie de l'Innovation becomes Food Zone.
Title: Belval Campus, on the remains
DATE: 9.4.2019
Belval Campus, University of Sciences Esch-sur-Alzette, Luxembourg. With a budget of €1.4M, the objective of this project was to develop a modular construction system allowing the integration of structures that can accommodate various urban functions. Response from Inessa Hansch Architect (IHA), delivered in April 2018. Press release.
Built on the former industrial site of Esch-sur-Alzette, the campus of the University of Science of Luxembourg is built around the remains of a former steelworks, dominated by blast furnaces. To respond to the monumentality of their scale and the density of the campus, the site is envisaged in its three dimensions.
Two walkable structures (Structure A: 466 m² SDP; University Structure: 319 m² SDP) are thus strategically placed to offer public spaces in floors whose height is that of the concrete bases of the blast furnaces, raised to 12 metres.
Their position at the edge of the site completes the campus layout by framing its entrances and offers a reading of the territory as a constructed totality within which transparencies of different natures are intertwined.
Their vertical configuration gives the user a full awareness of the natural ground, which he will then leave to rise to the level of the base of the industrial monuments, thus crossing different layers of uses and landscape.
Belvederes, footbridges, arcades, staircases, squares, alcoves constitute situations that are crossed and open to the climate. Semi-open spaces, in length, hollowed out, mezzanine floors, are some of the properties of these structures.
Made up of white lacquered metal frames, the structures with square section posts are composed of modules of 3, 60m x 3, 60m x 3 metres high. This generous but manageable dimension calls for a double ratio of scale: that of the human body and that of the inhabited room.
Concrete floors express the full materiality of the ground levels, artificial and filling elements are sufficient to transform each unit into a qualified and habitable space while leaving the walker in an outdoor situation.
Title: Queen Mathilde and the Crown Grand Duchess received in Belval 
DATE: 17.10.2019
A busy programme awaited the Belgian sovereigns on Wednesday on the second day of their state visit to the Grand Duchy, including a visit to the Learning Center. 
Queen Mathilde and Crown Grand Duchess Stéphanie were received in Belval yesterday morning, including a visit to the new library of the University. The two Highnesses toured the site managed by the Belval Fund, where they attended several presentations.
On Wednesday morning, the second day of the State visit began with a visit to the Diekirch Military Centre. This was a first for the Luxembourg army, which had never before received a visit from a Head of State. The King of the Belgians and the Grand Duke laid a wreath in front of the commemorative plaque in homage to the soldiers who died for their country. A minute's silence was observed in memory of the demining soldiers who died last February when a grenade exploded.
Demining is one of the activities in which Belgian and Luxembourg soldiers work together on a daily basis. Alongside the purchase of equipment, military aircraft and satellite communications. For the record, at the beginning of the 1980s, the Chief of Staff of the army attended the Brussels Military School at the same time as King Philippe.
Also on Wednesday's programme was a visit to the headquarters of the satellite operating company SES in Betzdorf. The two countries want to work together to create an international framework for the exploration and exploitation of space resources.
With regard to collaboration between Belgium and Luxembourg, the Walloon Minister-President, Elio di Rupo, announced that a new agreement had been concluded between the University of Liège and the Luxembourg Institute of Science and Technology (LIST).
The film production sector is another area where the good cooperation between the two states is illustrated by numerous co-productions released over the last ten years. According to Pierre-Yves Jeholet, Minister-President of the Wallonia-Brussels Federation, these collaborations are an artistic as well as a commercial success.
An agreement was signed on Tuesday with the Luxembourg Filmfong in order to develop collaboration between the two countries on the co-production of television series.
This second day ended on Wednesday evening at the Philharmonie with a concert offered by the Belgian sovereigns, a concert in the Queen Elisabeth Music Chapel, in collaboration with the Luxembourg Philharmonic Orchestra, in the presence of 800 guests.
Title: Belval had a record year in 2018
DATE: 4.7.2019
Never before had the neighbourhood born from the closure of the blast furnaces experienced such growth! Last year, the site sold 43,500 m2. And it's far from over because around the Belval Plaza and the University, there are still many projects. 
Grow, grow, grow. Since the launch of its reconversion 13 years ago, the former Belval iron and steel site has not stopped growing. Both in height and in surface area. And looking at all the figures, Vincent Delwiche, the general manager of the development company Agora, can be smiling. 2018 will have been the most beautiful year ever.
In one year, Agora will have placed 43,500 m2 of housing, offices and commercial units on the market. The Icône building (offices and coworking), a reception residence, a care and senior citizens' residence and a number of housing units, notably in the Belval IV tower, will have found takers.
More small shops
But beware, warns Vincent Delwiche, "Belval must not become a town where people simply come to work or sleep". So it's time to think about the well-being of the inhabitants. Thus, increasing the number of "small shops" to give a soul to the neighbourhood becomes a priority. 
New signs are expected in the gallery of Belval Plaza, but the arrival of other services is envisaged. Of course, bars and restaurants - including vegan - will be established near the Place des Bassins.  But even a baker will be coming to set up shop.
An expected sports centre
With the arrival of the families, Belval had to have "its" schools. In 2020, on the Sanem side, the first children could be welcomed in the early and basic school. A differentiated school will also be opened. The structure will welcome children with special educational needs. It will complete the educational offer which already includes the University of Luxembourg and the Lycée Belval.
A sports centre is also on the programme. It will include a swimming pool and a sports hall. The equipment will also be used for the training of future teachers of school sports courses. No delivery date could be confirmed at the moment. 
These are announcements that will delight the 17,000 or so people who use the various facilities in Belval on a daily basis. Just as they will delight the future occupants of the Capelli Towers (about a hundred units) delivered at the end of 2019 or the families who will live in the Omnia Tower. One of the last towers to emerge from the ground.
Title: High school students discover the University of Luxembourg
DATE: 31.10.2019
Around 200 high school students discovered the University of Luxembourg from 28 to 31 October. Enough to give them ideas for their future.
Lisa and almost 200 other high school students were able to experience campus life at the University of Luxembourg this week, for the "Université à l'essai". For four days, the future students were able to attend first-year courses and several seminars.
Arthur studies at the lycée Saint-Pierre Chanel in Thionville. He came to Belval to attend a morning of law. "I liked the course, I'd like to study law next year". If he's still hesitating about enrolling at the University of Belval, Lisa plans to study there after graduation.
Their future at stake
"The Belval campus offers a lot of different bachelors. On Monday, I was able to go to the economics class," explains the Mosellane from the Lycée Français de Luxembourg. She is delighted with her time at the university. "In addition to the captivating courses, the University is very beautiful. Just before, I visited the library, it's gigantic".
As she leaves the auditorium, Sarah's eyes still sparkle: "Attending a law course has motivated me even more to study law. The student at the Lycée Hubert Clément in Esch-sur-Alzette would like to become a judge or lawyer. This week may have allowed some students to choose their future campus or to discover a passion for one or another subject that was previously unknown to them.
Title: In Luxembourg, a wasteland converted into a temple of knowledge
DATE: 3.4.2018
The young university of Luxembourg has just moved to Belval, on a former iron and steel site. A futuristic and "American-style" campus that aims for academic excellence but still lacks notoriety. 
From his office perched on the eighteenth floor of the Maison du Savoir, the young rector of the University of Luxembourg has a breathtaking view of his establishment. Wearing a curved suit and steel blue eyes, Stéphane Pallage, who arrived at his post two months ago, is still amazed by the landscape offered by this singular campus. His particularity? It was built on an immense 120-hectare industrial wasteland, whose memory has remained vivid.
Chimneys several meters high, blast furnaces that look like cathedrals, rails, warehouses covered with greenery have been integrated into the campus layout. These vestiges of the former ArcelorMittal factory stand side by side with the ultra-modern university buildings with their futuristic names: House of Numbers, House of Books, House of Innovation...
Knowledge at the foot of the foundry
The old world giving way to the new. "It's a very strong symbol," admits Stéphane Pallage, a Belgian economist who has spent most of his career at the Université du Québec à Montréal (UQAM). "And this is just the beginning," he continues, pointing to the cranes and sites under construction. For although the University of Luxembourg (Uni. Lu) began to set up on this campus at the end of 2015, its development is far from complete.
Built on the skeleton of a former industrial hall, the library is due to open its doors in October. A large golden polygon, a Maison des Arts will soon be operational, with a 400-seat auditorium. An experimental building for engineers is under construction, as well as a hospital and additional accommodation for researchers and students.
Belval, the name given to this city of science located less than a kilometre from the French border, has great ambitions. It embodies the country's desire to no longer rely solely on its financial power, but also on knowledge and innovation. The site should also help to revitalise this region devastated by the end of the steel industry, and relieve congestion in the capital, 20 kilometres to the north.
Luxembourg has provided the means to achieve this: the country has invested 950 million euros to develop Belval, which is also home to research centres, start-ups and companies. The idea is to turn Belval into a kind of Silicon Valley in the heart of Europe," boasts the rector. It's a bit daring, but Luxembourg is a small country with big ambitions. »
Target international students.
However, in 2003, when the Grand Duchy finally decided to create a university, the only one in the country and the youngest in Western Europe, it was by no means a foregone conclusion. A whole section of the political class, in particular Prime Minister Jean-Claude Juncker, now President of the European Commission, was sceptical. "The country was undergoing enormous economic development. The leaders saw no point in spending crazy amounts of money on research," recalls Rolf Tarrach, the Spanish physicist who headed the University of Luxembourg for ten years and is now president of the European University Association. Above all, in such a small country (580,000 inhabitants), wasn't it vital that students continue to study elsewhere before returning home? "I told Juncker that we were not making a university for Luxembourgers, but for the country. And that it was fine if young people from here continued to study abroad," recalls Rolf Tarrach.
It was a good idea to feed the economy with new blood and therefore to target international students first and foremost. The school has a number of advantages: tuition fees of 400 euros per year, doctoral students paid 2,100 euros net per month, bilingual or trilingual courses, a brand new campus, courses in small groups, good prospects for integration into a job market open to foreigners, etc. The result: today, 55 percent of its 6,200 students are foreigners.
Moderate tuition fees
When he was in his final year of secondary school in Thionville (Moselle), a few kilometres from Luxembourg, Alexis, 18 years old, admits that few of his classmates had heard of this establishment. He knew it because his parents work in the Grand Duchy: he had passed the Belval campus several times. He hesitated with a private computer school in Metz, but was seduced by the modern infrastructure of the Uni. Read, the courses in English, the university deposit and the moderate tuition fees: "To have a university like that just a few miles from home and not take advantage of it, it would have been a shame."
Now in his bachelor's degree in computer science, the young man says he's delighted: "We have teachers from all over the world. And we have a room just for our training, where we can work and settle when we want. "Next year, like all undergraduates, he will spend a semester at a foreign university. However, he admits that the campus is not the most vibrant. The students are not very involved in the governance of the institution, even though this is going to change, says the rector.
In short, student life has yet to be built in Belval. Just like the academic culture. This is a major challenge, given that the institution brings together researchers from all backgrounds. However, the course set since the university was founded is clear and pragmatic: increase publications in prestigious journals, attract the best foreign researchers and doctoral students, and climb the rankings, these highly prized international rankings.
766 million euros from the State of Luxembourg
In order to stand out in this competition, the University of Luxembourg has decided to focus its efforts on a handful of fields related to the country's economy: IT, cyber-security, data modelling, biomedical, health, law, finance and education. But it's not over yet. We are 11th in the Times Higher Education 2017 world ranking of young universities," says Stéphane Pallage. It's already exceptional, but we should be able to reach the level of the EPFL," the Swiss Federal Institute of Technology in Lausanne, which occupies first place in this ranking of universities under the age of 50.
To implement this strategy, the rector has considerable resources at his disposal: for the next four-year plan, which the university has just signed, the establishment will receive 766 million euros from the State of Luxembourg, i.e. 30% more than in the last contract. As the only university in the country, Belval has all the favours of the Ministry of Higher Education of the Grand Duchy, as well as the National Research Fund. This strength enables it to attract a few "stars", such as the sociologist Louis Chauvel, a former pillar of Sciences Po in Paris. All in all, the Uni. Lu has 260 permanent teacher-researchers, in addition to a battalion of 430 post-docs and an army of 640 doctoral students.
It is this environment that attracted Jacques Klein, a French computer scientist who studied at Inria. "The conditions for doing research are very good. The university has no problem financing travel to conferences," says the 38-year-old researcher, who is hired with a salary "on the order of twice that offered to a lecturer in France".
Freedom in research
Despite these good conditions, the research system remains "young", judges the President of the University of Lorraine Pierre Mutzenhardt: "Although the Luxembourg university is beginning to be recognised in certain fields, such as materials or IT, it does not yet have a major research infrastructure. And the link with teaching has yet to be created".
But this youth can be a strength. This is what attracted Elise Poillot, professor of law at Belval and former lecturer at Lyon-III. According to her, the University of Luxembourg offers professors a certain degree of freedom, with substantial resources, far from the mandarinats: "There is no tradition, no pre-established system. Everything has to be invented. "There is no tradition, no pre-established system. Everything has to be invented. She also appreciates the "very international" nature of the teams and students, whose first names she knows "by all accounts" and who are "not overwhelmed by a mass education system".
But before this little-known university finds its place in Europe, it will have to make a place for itself in Luxembourg, where part of the population still doubts its interest. "The university does not really position itself as a place for public debate. It is a bit like a foreign body," says a former history professor from the Grand Duchy. Marked "by Anglo-Saxon liberal thinking, it does not have a critical role to play in Luxembourg's politics, economy or society," he regrets. This is not surprising for a university that looks elsewhere first and foremost.
Title: The University of Luxembourg, "simply unique in the world".
DATE: 11.11.2019
The rector of the University of Luxembourg, Stéphane Pallage, highlights the success of this young structure with comfortable means.
You have been rector since 1 January 2018. After almost two years in office, how do you view the University of Luxembourg?
Stéphane Pallage: I arrived with a very enthusiastic view of the University of Luxembourg, which I had described as a jewel. Two years later, I still have the same enthusiasm. It really is a jewel, which needs to be polished, but to realise in 16 years of existence what this university has achieved is simply unique in the world. We have centres of excellence in different fields and of world-class quality. We are a special university that has been built in a very visionary way. It is resolutely modern and interdisciplinary. Which is a strength, since contemporary problems are so complex that often the cross-fertilization of several disciplines is necessary. When an economist interacts with a scientific biologist and a computer scientist, we often find ourselves with a much greater potential for innovation than if an economist stayed with his or her peers.
Situated in the heart of Europe, the UK faces stiff competition from other institutions in Belgium, France, Germany and Switzerland. How does it stand out?
It manages to do so very well: we try not to have the largest number of students, but the best students. Interdisciplinarity is really in our DNA, something that all universities want to have. And our only 16 years of existence gives us a certain agility. So we can easily adapt to the demands of the market and update our curricula, whereas at universities that are 100 or 200 years old, it's much more difficult to do so. The best example of this is the programme that we have just set up around space and that we have built in a very original way. Because of the country's positioning in the field of space, we are responding to the need to train a highly qualified workforce in this field. And rather than creating this program in isolation in our offices, we designed the skeleton for it and then presented it to the major companies in the sector, from SES to Boeing. It's an approach that allows alignment with a technical, scientific or business environment that can evolve rapidly.
Is this youthfulness really an advantage?
It's always easier when you're young. There's a dynamism in this university that you don't find everywhere. There is an entrepreneurial feeling. Since 2003, we've been building something. It's a mindset that can be found among our staff.
A North American approach
On the other hand, is the youth of the university playing against it? Parents who have studied at a foreign university can keep a link with this place and encourage their children to choose it instead of Luxembourg.
Indeed and it is normal. We are all linked to our academic background and I understand very well a parent who advises his child to go to Lausanne or Brussels to study because he himself has been there. But I still invite him or her to come and visit us and discover our North American teaching philosophy.
What is that philosophy?
We teach small groups. A student who comes to us will rarely have classes in a 500-seat auditorium that is full. It may happen on the first and last day of his or her course, but in reality, the student will benefit from a real interaction with the teacher, something we don't often see in Europe. In the first year, there are many classes with groups of 100 people, but very quickly, you end up in groups of about 30 people, with a teacher who wants you to ask questions. That is a North American approach. I should point out that I am not the one who brought it from Canada. Perhaps we owe it to the first rector, who also came from Quebec.
Precisely, based on your Canadian experience, what did you bring?
I come from the disciplines of economics and management sciences. Human relations are extremely important. The quality of life at work is important to me and I think there was a real need to develop this dimension within the university. To take an example, we signed a collective agreement that had been under discussion for years. Within a few months, we reached an agreement with the staff and the unions and we signed our first collective agreement. It's not revolutionary, but it puts things in place for the quality of life of the staff, for the training and advancement of people in their careers. We have also professionalized the services by making them more client-oriented, i.e. students, teachers and other stakeholders.
Transforming Belval into a real living neighbourhood
A university is also a place to live. In some cities in Europe, there is a kind of student proliferation in the streets. A feeling that is much less felt in Belval...
And yet the students are here! I'm not hiding it, it's a challenge to turn Belval into a real living district. But there are a lot of people working on that. Agora and the Belval Fund, which are developing the district spectacularly, the Uni, the incubators, the companies that are setting up shop left and right. They are working towards the same goal. The opening of the library (Luxembourg Learning Center) has also contributed to this. It is open until 10 p.m., as well as on Saturdays, and I even dream of being able to open it 24 hours a day. We are also working with the ASBL Esch 2022, and then there is this project for a bicycle path to better connect us to Esch-sur-Alzette. Recently, several new catering points have opened in the direct vicinity of the university. There is dynamism. Afterwards, it's true that we always want to go fast, but on the other hand, I find that there are also gaps. We should have a big wall of graffiti, artists' workshops and more spontaneous parties. I strongly encourage it, the students should take ownership of the place, let it be theirs.
Speaking of students, how many are there and where do they come from?
We have 6,614 students. We are considered by the Times Higher Education World University Rankings as the most international university in the world. We have 125 different nationalities among our students and 90 different nationalities among our professors. It's pretty spectacular. In terms of where our students come from, 44% come from Luxembourg, 42% from the European Union and 14% from the rest of the world.
One of the particularities of the University of Luxembourg is the compulsory mobility semester abroad .
We have a very large number of disciplines where it is possible to do the whole curriculum in Luxembourg: bachelor, master, doctorate. On the other hand, within our bachelor's programmes, our students have a compulsory semester of mobility abroad. The only discipline where we ask our students to leave to complete their studies is medicine.
Going as far as possible from Luxembourg
But that will change in 2020?
Right now we can offer the first year of medical school as a bachelor's degree. From the start of the 2020 academic year, we offer the possibility of doing the whole bachelor's degree in Luxembourg and we have partnerships with other countries for the rest of the study programme. Having a medical school is not a goal in itself, but it is clearly an important possibility. We will move forward in stages. We are going to build this bachelor's degree, evaluate it and then decide whether or not to go further.
Getting back to this obligation to spend a semester abroad. Isn't it difficult for students?
We are training citizens of the world and we encourage them to take the step of going as far away from Luxembourg as possible. The student who goes to China, Japan, Brazil or Canada, I think it will change his life forever. We have a very good service that works on the mobility of our students: we accompany them and they are very well received. We have agreements with many universities in many countries and good relations with the respective embassies. An embassy such as the one in Japan will not be surprised to receive one of our students for administrative matters.
What are the most popular courses of study?
The most popular is the management course with 377 students. Then comes the Bachelor of Education program with 318 students. The Bachelor of Law with 313 students is also very popular. Next come a wide variety of disciplines: economics and management, for example, with 307 students, the bachelor's degree in social and educational sciences with 203 students. Computer science also attracts a lot of interest with 155 students. It should be noted that we offer 44 master's and 14 bachelor's degrees at the university.
Is the question of student housing part of the university's prerogatives?
About 20% of our students have access to a student room. This rate is an international standard, but that doesn't mean we can't do better. If we can further develop the housing supply, we will try to do so. There are all kinds of projects under way and new residences are opening right now. There is a project that we would like to put in place, a modular and light housing project that could be an interesting model for Esch 2022. In concrete terms, we have 1,200 rooms managed by the university, even though we do not own them. Real estate is not our business.
The university is located in Belval but also in Luxembourg and in much more dilapidated buildings. Will there be improvements on this side?
If you look at the coalition agreement, there are plans to build a new university campus for the Faculty of Law, Economics and Finance in Kirchberg. For obvious reasons, this faculty must remain close to the major European justice institutions and the financial centre. As far as the timetable is concerned, there is no precise date, but it is a project that the government wants to initiate during its current term of office.
A society needs strong human sciences
What is the university's budget?
The budget is 259 million euros for 2018 and a little more for 2019. It's a very nice budget that gives us the means to achieve our ambitions, which allows our researchers to have structuring financing. Our funding also comes from European institutions (Horizon 2020 programme), the National Research Fund (FNR), the private sector and donations. We can say that our budget per student is spectacular and we can really offer our students things that few universities can afford to do.
Finally the student is pampered at the University of Luxembourg?
Yes, very clearly. I invite the residents to come and discover the university and what it has to offer to future students and even to those who are not students. The library, for example, is accessible to everyone, all you have to do is register.
What if something needed to be improved within the university?
We are currently putting in place a long-term strategic development plan. You should know that every four years we sign an agreement with the government, a four-year plan. I think that we have reached a maturity where we have to have a 20-year vision, with shorter-term strategies. This is what we are putting in place, a major strategic process for the future.
The university has a role to play in our society, and I understand that you attach importance to the human sciences .
A society needs strong humanities, a critical and honest look at history, a factual insight into major societal debates, experts capable of confirming what is a fact and what is not. Strong human sciences are the guarantor of a strong democracy. This dimension is very much present at the University of Luxembourg and must continue to be consolidated and developed.
Title: The Univeristy manages a stock of 1,070 student housing units
DATE: 24.6.2019
The number of student housing units at the University has decreased slightly in one year. Starting in the fall, it is expected to increase again.
The period for allocating and confirming student housing has started at the University of Luxembourg. At present, the Uni manages a stock of 1,070 units in 35 residences in Luxembourg, Esch-sur-Alzette, Mondercange, Noertzange, Dudelange, Belvaux, Oberkorn and Niederkorn.
This is a little less than a year ago. At that time, the stock consisted of 1,122 dwellings in 37 residences. The Uni builds residences but also rents them out. "Two contracts with private owners have been stopped," they tell the Uni. "But in the autumn, three new student residences, with a total of 47 units, are due to open. So we'll almost return to the previous number of units.
The Uni is keeping an eye on the needs to see if its offer corresponds. Even though it has more than 6,400 students, some of them are staying with their parents or with private room-mates... From October onwards, most of the Uni's accommodation will be occupied, but the number varies slightly during the year, depending on the departures and arrivals of students on mobility programmes. If necessary, a student can be put on a waiting list while a room becomes available. The monthly Uni rent starts at just under 300 euros for a single room with shared sanitary facilities.
Title: Soon another campus in Belval
DATE: 15.9.2017
The first shovel of the future Kannercampus was given on Thursday in Belval. Planned for the start of the 2020 school year, it will house a school, a nursery, a maison relais, a sports hall and a differentiated school all in one place.
Sanem is growing rapidly. The municipality currently has about 16,500 residents and "in a few years, it will have 20,000," says Georges Engel. Therefore, infrastructures must be provided. That's what we're doing." On Thursday, the mayor of Sanem and the Minister of Education, Children and Youth, Claude Meisch, broke ground for the future Kannercampus, which will open in September 2020.
"The idea of creating a school here was born from the very beginning of the conversion of the Belval wasteland," said the mayor of Sanem. The work should have started a year ago (Editor's note: the structural work will begin next month), but the ministry asked us to review our plans to integrate the maison relais into the campus. It's now done and that's a good thing."
Located at Place Marcelle-Lentz-Cornette, not far from the CIPA, the future Kannercampus de Belval will bring together four buildings on a total area of 23,150 m². The municipal school will occupy three buildings: crèche, pre-school and lower cycles (total gross surface area: 7,595 m²); cycles 2 - 4 (total gross surface area: 5,303 m²); a sports hall (total gross surface area: 4,340 m²) which will be semi-buried, will include three grounds, a changing room area, a grandstand for a limited public and an access area topped by a multi-purpose hall.
"Innovative collaborations" with the Uni
The fourth building will be the differentiated school (total gross area: 5,859 m²). A car park will be available below the playground for teachers and another, outside, for users. As for the spaces dedicated to the maison relais, they will be integrated into the three buildings of the communal school in order to assemble the teaching and the maison relais into an inseparable whole. Spaces between the school buildings will provide pedestrian connections between the large park of the district and the square beyond the Waassertrap, in front of the CIPA.
Budgeted at 56 million euros, the Kannercampus will accommodate 650 pupils (590 at the local authority school and 60 at the EDIFF) from the start of the 2020 school year.
Located a few hundred metres from the university, the Kannercampus will have a close relationship with the university, as the Minister of National Education, Children and Youth has emphasised. Georges Engel adds: "Innovative collaborations between the Kannercampus and the Uni will see the light of day." So it will be more than just a cohabitation between the two campuses at Belval.
Title: Between hectic and patience: everyday life on the film set of the series "Cellule de crise".
DATE: 24.10.2019
In Esch and on Belval shooting of the series "Cellule de crise" has been taking place for a few days now. The political thriller is a Swiss-Belgian-Luxembourgish co-production. An insight into everyday life on the set reveals that on the one hand the staff is constantly under time pressure, but on the other hand they have to wait a lot.
Monday afternoon, 21st day of shooting. Setting: the Campus Belval, which will later be presented as the University of Freiburg in the series. The team of around 50 people has just had lunch in the catering tent. In front of the entrance to the administration building, the next scene will be shot with French actor André Dussollier and Swiss actress Isabelle Caillat.
The series, which consists of six episodes of 48 minutes each, focuses on humanitarian aid organisations. After the president of an important Swiss aid organisation was killed in an attack in Yemen, his succession must be secured.
"In the scene we are now shooting, Vice President Kessel (André Dussollier) offers university professor Suzanne (Isabelle Caillat) to put forward her candidacy for the post of president," Line Producer Raquel Morte, who works for the Belgian production company "Entre Chien et Loup", tells the Tageblatt.
The series is a co-production of RTS ("Radio Télévision Suisse"), the Swiss production company "Tipi'mages", "Entre Chien et Loup" from Belgium and "Samsa Films" from Luxembourg. Although the Grand Duchy is not mentioned in the series, it plays a major role: 32 of 60 shooting days take place in this country - among others in Esch and on Belval. Before that, the film was shot in Switzerland, mainly in Geneva, next stop is Morocco. "It is a condition of the film fund that half of the shooting days plus one take place in Luxembourg," explains Morte.
A whole day of shooting for about six minutes
It is windy between the buildings of the university on Belval. The whole team, especially the actors, are freezing. The costumes of Isabelle Caillat and André Dussollier are designed for sunny autumn weather. They both wear thick jackets during rehearsals. Just before the cameras roll, they take them off. The flap falls. But suddenly the shoot is interrupted. Because of a noise, the recording has to be repeated. "Cover the actors, they are cold", director Jacob Berger calls out. Then they have to wait until everything is ready again. During this time the actors wrap themselves up in their jackets again.
"A very big part of the work on set is waiting", says Morte. On a day of shooting like Monday, which lasts from 11.30 to 20.30, there are on average only six useful minutes for the series. For a feature film it's only two to three on average. Ironic, since the team is also under great time pressure. The material for the six episodes of 48 minutes each has to be in the can in 60 days of shooting. "Each additional day costs an enormous amount of money," says Raquel Morte. As line producer, she is responsible for ensuring that the budget is met, but organisational and logistical matters also fall under her remit.
Paying attention to the little things
But it is not only money that puts a film team under pressure, the seasons also play a role. Marie Chaduc is a script supervisor. She makes sure that the continuity of the film works out. This is especially important because different scenes later in the series follow on directly from each other, but there can be weeks between shoots.
Chaduc has to make sure that everything fits together later in the series. It shouldn't rain in torrents and two minutes later the sun is shining. Even colourful autumn leaves in the background must not suddenly turn a juicy green.
Chaduc keeps an eye on every little detail. For example, an actor's scarf or a door in the background that should not be closed all at once. She has been doing this job for 20 years. "At the beginning of my career, I didn't sleep nights because I was always afraid I'd missed a detail," she says. "Now I'm much more relaxed about it." She has learned to accept small things, because many things could still change during assembly that she can no longer influence.
Script Supervisor is just one of many tasks that have to be taken on the set. The areas of costumes, make-up and hair are usually managed by one head of post each, who is present during the entire shooting. The head of the post then selects his assistants in the country where the filming is currently taking place. During the 32 days of shooting in this country, a total of around 30 Luxembourgers work in a 50-strong team. On Monday there were 30 extras, on Tuesday even 100.
Shooting at an Escher home
Not only the staff and extras of the series are from Luxembourg, but also one or the other Escher had to make his house available to the film crew for a few days. Steve Faltz, among others: "We suddenly had a note in our mailbox, so our house must have pleased the series makers," he says.
Faltz agrees to an inspection. It turns out that the building is ideally suited for the series. The fact that the furniture is easy to move around and part of the decoration matches the story certainly contributed to this. The crew removes half of the paintings on the walls and drags out a lot of furniture. "They didn't need the top floor, so we could still live at home during the construction work," says Faltz. That was funny at times, he says. "But it was also kind of cool to live in a movie set."
When the shooting started, the Faltz family moved into the Seven-Hotel on the "Gaalgebierg". There she stays for four nights. "That was like a little holiday at home", says Steve Faltz, who's been back in his familiar home since Tuesday, laughing. Everything looks the same as before - as if nobody had ever been there.
Title: The Belval campus at a glance
DATE: 14.09.2015
D-Day for the start of the academic year, this Monday, with the arrival of 2200 students on the Belval site. Not easy to find your way around? For the students as for the inhabitants of Esch-sur-Alzette, here is a clear map of the new campus.
This is the flagship building of the campus. This ultra-modern vessel cost nearly 80 million euros. It symbolises the two components of the university: the lecture rooms in the horizontal bar, the rectorate services in the vertical bar, 83 metres high. All the lectures are to take place here. The building has a large amphitheatre and eleven auditoriums with a total capacity of more than 2,200 seats, not counting the 75 classrooms!
The University Restaurant
It is open from 7 a.m. to 8 p.m. non-stop, serving breakfast, lunch and dinner. A must, moreover, to work quietly.
The House of Books
This vast building spreads out along the blast furnaces. It won't be ready until 2018, but don't panic. A very design library is already operational in the Maison des sciences, with equipment perfectly adapted to work up to the hour.
The House of Humanities
This satellite building will host, as of this fall, practical work and small group classes. It is located just across the street from the House of Knowledge.
House of Numbers, Materials, Arts, etc.
These buildings will be completed next year. As with the House of Science, they will serve as a satellite for each speciality, again with the idea of holding the lectures in the House of Knowledge. With 2,200 students for this first school year, the fact that these buildings have not been made available is not a problem.
The Rockhal (at the foot of the station)
It is not strictly speaking a university building... but it is the largest concert hall in the Grand Duchy (6,500 seats in optimal configuration) so it is a potential student venue! World stars such as the rapper Mob Depp, who is due to perform there on 7 October. A big student party is scheduled for Friday.
The blast furnaces
Hard to miss them. Students can rest assured, they've been off since 1997. Unfortunately, it doesn't go back on like a lighter. They are simply "decorative elements" (don't use the expression with a former steelworker...), reminiscent of the formidable iron epic, which began in the 19th century.
At the height of production, in the 1970s, 8,000 workers were working at Belval. They came from all over Europe and gave their lives and their health to build a prosperous society. The message of the blast furnaces is clear: "Today's student, you are the heir of yesterday's pioneers." Heavy responsibility!
Title: By tram from Luxembourg... to Belval!
DATE: 29.3.2018
François Bausch announced this Thursday that the best solution to relieve congestion on the A4 and the saturated Luxembourg/Esch-sur Alzette corridor would be the creation of a fast tram, capable of travelling at up to 100km/h outside the conurbation.
He had already announced the abandonment of the project for a high service level bus (of the Mettis type in Metz), which was not efficient enough. On Tuesday, François Bausch had this time drawn a line under the monorail, too expensive and not adapted to the local context. This Thursday, the Minister for Sustainable Development and Infrastructure announced that the study launched to find the best solution for relieving the A4 would be that of a tram similar to the one running on the Kirchberg but with a more powerful engine that would allow it to run at 100 km/h between Cessange and Pontpierre.
Up to 600 passengers per train
Cheaper than a conventional railway line, running on exclusive right-of-way (no right-of-way on the motorway or rails), high-speed trams would be flexible and have sufficient capacity (up to 600 passengers per train). The first phase would link the capital to Pontpierre or Mondercange, where a multimodal hub with a park & ride facility would be built. The second phase would continue to Belval, passing through the rehabilitated wastelands of Esch-Schifflange. "We could then reach the two university campuses (Editor's note: Belval and Kirchberg) by staying in the same tramway train," the minister points out.
If this option is the one recommended by the Ministry of Sustainable Development and Infrastructure (MDDI), everything remains to be done. The cost assessment, technical modalities and management of the project have yet to be determined. But for François Bausch, "there is an urgent need to make a decision". If the decision is taken by the new government, he estimates that this rapid tram could be up and running within 10 to 15 years.
Title: King Philip and Grand Duke Henry at the Diekirch Military Centre
DATE: 17.10.2019A busy programme awaits the Belgian sovereigns on Wednesday on the second day of their state visit to the Grand Duchy.
The day began with a visit to the Diekirch Military Centre. The King of the Belgians and the Grand Duke laid a wreath in front of the commemorative plaque in homage to the soldiers who died for their country. A minute's silence was observed in memory of the demining soldiers who died in February last year when a grenade exploded.
The Belgian and Luxembourg Heads of State then visited the headquarters of the satellite operating company SES in Betzdorf.
Queen Mathilde and Crown Grand Duchess Stéphanie were in Belval this morning, where they visited, among other things, the University's new library.
The Belgian sovereigns were also welcomed at the Centre culturel de rencontre Abbaye de Neumuenster. This second day will end with a concert at the Philharmonie.
Title: Belval: the university opens its doors
DATE: 31.7.2017
This Saturday will be an opportunity to discover the courses, mobility opportunities and services of student life in the UK.
This year's programme is full, with guided tours on campus, presentations and open stands in the House of Knowledge. Students will be able to soak up the atmosphere of the auditoriums, student residences and the brand new student lounge in Belval.
Teachers will present more than 55 bachelors, masters and continuing education courses. In addition to the 11 existing bachelors and 39 masters, four new programs are available as of this year. The Bachelor in Computer Science (in English and in French or German), prepares students to pursue a Master's degree and to access high-level positions. Three new Master's programmes are proposed: the Master in Logistics and Supply Chain Management, the Master in Border Studies and the Master in Architecture.
On the stands, visitors will be able to familiarise themselves with student associations, university services and partner institutions. Leisure activities will include Campus Sport and Campus Art, but also the Language Centre, the Cedies information centre, the City of Esch-sur-Alzette, etc. At the Careers Campus stand, visitors will be able to find out about job and internship opportunities after their studies.
Finally, visitors will discover the entertaining side of science, through activities such as those offered by the Scienteens Lab, the upAM plastic reuse workshop with a 3D printer, the HoloLens virtual reality headset and the 3D scanner allowing visitors to get a full body scan.
Title: Belval: the Uni opens its doors
DATE: 10.3.2016
On Saturday 19 March from 9 a.m. to 4 p.m., the University of Luxembourg (United Kingdom) will open its doors on the Belval campus in Esch-sur-Alzette.
The ideal opportunity to discover the backstage of the headquarters of the Uni at the Maison du savoir and the Cité des sciences. But also (and above all) to find out about the 11 bachelor's programmes, the 39 master's programmes, the qualifying courses and continuing education provided by the Uni and its three faculties.
Professors, guidance counsellors, students and other Uni staff will be available to answer any questions visitors may have about study content, the registration process, semesters abroad or job prospects.
Title: Back to university: 3,000 students on the Belval Campus
DATE: 20.9.2016
Since the beginning of this week, 3,000 students registered at the University of Luxembourg have been studying on the Belval Campus. The 750-seat Auditorium, on the ground floor of the Maison du Savoir, was overflowing with students on Monday at the launch of the winter semester courses.
"Impressive" is the phrase most often used Monday morning in the mouths of Tom, Kim and Pit, three students starting their university studies, to characterize the brand new buildings of the University in Belval.
The three are still waiting for a friend in front of the entrance to the Maison du Savoir. Inside, it's the big crowd. So large even that the 750-seat auditorium was not enough to accommodate all the students who flocked there to hear Rector Rainer Klump's welcome speech. This in no way detracted from the overall good atmosphere.
3,000 students in Belval
Almost half of uni.lu students will be studying in Belval this year. In addition to the 2,000 students in the Faculty of Humanities, there are 1,000 students enrolled in the Faculty of Law, Economics and Finance.
Rainer Klump spoke of a "young and dynamic university" and urged students to be actively involved in their teaching processes and to engage in student life.
Student structure
From this semester onwards, Belval students will also have access to the containers that previously housed Adem's services. As reported by representatives of the Student Life Office, a competition is currently underway to give the structure a name.
Although the campus still seemed a little confusing to them on Monday morning, Tom, Kim and Pit have high expectations. Sanem's mayor, Georges Engel, was reassuring: "Not everything is 100%, but we are working on it".
Title: Free listeners in Belval: the pleasure of learning without pressure
DATE: 28.8.2015
The university is preparing for its return to Belval. On Wednesday, September 2, an information meeting will be organized for free listeners.
In Belval, there is no age limit to enrich one's knowledge: at the new campus of the University of Luxembourg in Esch-sur-Alzette, the audiences will welcome not only students but also some 150 free listeners for the first time this academic year.
An "auditeur libre" is a retired or pre-retired person, but also any adult who wishes to refresh, enrich or acquire academic knowledge at the university, regardless of his or her level of education. They may choose from the catalogue, which lists more than 70 courses from various disciplines, between one and three courses per semester, subject to availability.
Real courses
It is not a question of lectures that have been revised and dedicated to free listeners as a hobby: the university offers lectures and seminars to adults who will be able to rub shoulders with young students on the benches of the faculties. However, the free listeners will have the privilege of learning without pressure, as they will not be subject to examinations. The University of Luxembourg offers this programme in collaboration with the non-profit organisation RBS-Center fir Altersfroen in Itzig.
An information meeting will be held at the Belval campus next Wednesday at 3 p.m. in the foyer of the Maison des sciences humaines (11, porte des Sciences, L-4366 Esch-sur-Alzette). The meeting will be followed by a free guided tour of the Maison du savoir and the campus.
Title: Belval: a new place for Square Mile
DATE: 27.06.2018
The development company Agora made the assessment of the year 2017-2018. It is still pursuing the same objective in Belval: to mix residential and professional for a "modern district that offers work to its inhabitants". With a new square announced in the Square Mile district!
While the development of Belval is progressing ever faster and 74% of its building surface has already been sold, the development company Agora, born in 2000 from a partnership between the State and ArcelorMittal (formerly ARBED), yesterday presented its 2017/2018 assessment of the development of the Square Mile and Belval North and South districts. Because tomorrow, Belval will continue to change its face, but will keep what characterizes it and makes its history, in short: it is destined to become a new city centre. "The goal," explains Frank Vansteenkiste, the president of Agora, "is that by 2030 the area will become a modern district that offers work to its inhabitants." "It is essential for future generations to know the history of Belval, the blast furnaces, which are the witnesses of great industrialisation. We cannot live without our roots, and the same goes for our spaces," adds Vincent Delwiche.
The Square Mile
The Square Mile is currently the location where most of the development and construction work is concentrated. Together with the projects "Naos", "Capelli Towers", "Rouden Rock" and "Southlane", which are mainly residential and professional, nine other projects are expected to be completed by 2020/2021. Three of them will have more than 38,000 m2 , of which 60% will be dedicated to housing, 35% to offices and 5% to shops. "Nearly 400 new inhabitants will be able to settle in Belval and 700 new jobs will also be created," explains Vincent Delwiche, director of Agora. But who says attractive pole also says central place. And this is where the Metaform team will intervene, to whom the project for the development of the Place des Bassins has been awarded, which will become "the beating heart of the district", according to the director. Here, the man "dreams of a place where people will sit on the square, attend music concerts, even at noon, while enjoying the good weather". The square, which will be raised five metres above the current ground level, will see the water of its pools preserved, which will form the sign of infinity.
Belval Nord
Belval Nord will be a predominantly residential neighbourhood. "The last four projects are currently in the award and design phase," explains Vincent Delwiche.
Belval South
In Belval Sud, no less than 550 housing units are planned between now and 2027, including 120 single-family dwellings. Work is expected to begin in 2020/2021. Nearly 1,200 people are expected to settle in the neighbourhood, "especially families, since the dwellings will be close to the Bel-Val high school, the park, as well as the "Kanner-Campus", currently under construction and near Sanem". On the infrastructure side, work is also progressing: a new 120-metre long bridge over the N31 is being built. It will be part of the new Belval motorway connection to the A4 and will be integrated into the route of the Micheville link.
Title: Belval - Design, the new university restaurant opens its doors
DATE: 14.09.2015
It is already open without interruption from 7am to 8pm, whereas the school year only starts on Monday. The new university restaurant in Belval is the symbol of this "dynamic and human-scale" campus, desired by the Uni management.
With a capacity of 300 seats, the restaurant is on two floors, with a mezzanine. The materials are refined and the atmosphere is hushed. The student menu will be offered at 4.50 euros, with a variation of up to several balanced dishes per meal. Faced with the risks of undersizing, the vice-rector of the university Eric Tschirhart reassures: "Let's think in a modern way.
Piling up 1,000 students in a refectory is not an attractive option. On the other hand, setting up a designer canteen, on a human scale, open morning, noon and evening, in short, whenever you feel like it, is a good option." The provost says three small restorations will also be opened in the three main university buildings. "Young people are like that now, they like to eat or have coffee whenever they feel like it. This restaurant can even be used for laptop work, thanks to Uni's Wi-Fi." In short, an upscale student cafeteria!
Title: A floating centre for the campus of the University of Luxembourg
DATE: 09.10.2015
After five years of construction, the "Maison du Savoir", the centre of the new campus of the University of Luxembourg, was officially inaugurated by Grand Duke Henri of Luxembourg and Luc Dhamen, director of the public establishment "Fonds Belval".
The "Maison du Savoir" is the new administration and communication centre of the University of Luxembourg in Esch-sur-Alzette. After winning the international competition, be baumschlager eberle, in partnership with Christian Bauer & Associés Architectes, has built the heart of the new "Cité des Sciences".
The new landmark in the heart of the new "Cité des Sciences" symbolises the transformation of a former industrial steel production site into a modern training centre. The building, which extends horizontally and vertically, echoes the general infrastructure of the university founded in 2003. The lecture halls, lecture rooms and professors' rooms are part of it, as are the administration and catering facilities.
80 metres high
The research institutes and the location of the future library are grouped around the central part of the "House of Knowledge". The building seeks to reconstruct links with the past, when steel was still being produced on the 27.3 hectare area - the "Terrace of the Blast Furnaces".
From the top of its 18 floors, the tower was designed to the size of the former steel furnaces. The subjective impression of floating is created by prestressed concrete cantilevers that rise into the void from the second floor. The "House of Knowledge" is one of the tallest administrative buildings in Europe and has a single-skin façade structure.
From an urban planning point of view, the "Place du Saint-Esprit" is connected to the areas planned for the future library to the north and the institutes to the south. The "House of Knowledge" lays the foundations for an urban context, without giving up its solitary position.
Steel honeycomb
The vertical dimension of the building is revealed through high windows that allow generous amounts of light to penetrate into spaces that are not directly on the façade. On the fourth floor of the horizontal bar is the garden of the building. The two auditoriums, two storeys high, hover at each end of the horizontal bar above the ground.
For the façade, be baumschlager eberle chose to work with a double layer. The inner layer forms the climatic boundary of the building, while the outer layer, like a steel honeycomb, forms a protective envelope. In this way, the degree of transparency and exposure to light can be regulated.
Title: The University of Belval opens its doors
DATE: 18.03.2016
The University of Luxembourg opens its doors on 19 March on the Belval Campus in Esch-sur-Alzette to welcome future students, parents, teachers and all citizens interested in the annual information day.
The University of Luxembourg is organising its open day on Saturday 19 March from 9.00 to 16.00 in Belval.
The ideal opportunity to take a look behind the scenes of the University's headquarters at the Maison du Savoir and the Cité des Sciences, one of the most ambitious urbanisation projects in Europe. Above all, this is the time to discover the 11 bachelor's programmes, the 39 master's programmes, but also the qualifying and continuing education programmes.
Visitors will also be able to find out more about study contents, the registration procedure, semesters abroad or job prospects. Professors, guidance counsellors, students and employees of the University of Luxembourg will be at your disposal to advise you in personal discussions and answer all your questions.
Title: In Belval, an ultra-modern university in the heart of the wastelands
DATE: 12.12.2015
On 4 September last, the University of Luxembourg opened a new page in its young history by welcoming the first students to its new campus and setting up its headquarters in Belval. Eventually, 7,000 students and 3,000 teachers and researchers are expected to move to the area.
On the wasteland of Belval, 2,000 students... and soon 7,000 more...
Belval. When it's time to set foot there again, the site is just a memory. That of the concert given by Morcheeba at the Rockhal in July 2011. Four years and some dust later, the music is quite different. In the distance, the muffled sound of the motorway leading to the Luxembourg capital. Closer to us, the cry of the mechanical cranes tearing at the sky. There's no doubt that Belval is in the middle of a moult. And the huge eighteen-storey building that rises before our eyes as we get out of our car tells us that the moult is already well under way. Welcome to the University of Luxembourg, Faculty of Letters, Humanities, Arts and Educational Sciences (FLSHASE). "Previously, the courses were given in Walferdange. The move took place this summer. The students started on 4 September," says Sarah Melcher, Communication and Press Relations Officer.
From her office, located on the 15th floor of the Maison des savoirs, the building that houses the administrative services, one can see the University square and its dark stone floor. The place is deserted at this time of day. Deceptive impression of a life in slow motion. On the stroke of noon, the square comes alive. Some people change rooms, others head for the university restaurant. Today," continues Sarah Melcher, "about 2,000 students are welcomed on the site. "Soon, probably by the end of 2019, all the students of the University of Luxembourg, which opened in 2003, will converge here. "With the exception of certain parts of the Faculty of Law, Economics and Finance," which will still be located under the sky of the capital, Luxembourg. To be more concrete: 7,000 students as well as 3,000 professors and researchers are expected to arrive in Belval in the near future.
"Living, studying, working and having fun".
At the head of the new ship of the Grand Ducal University, Georg Mein is brimming with enthusiasm. Yes, some boxes have not yet been unpacked. Yes, "we still have to make some adjustments, but the environment and infrastructure are exceptional," says the FLSHASE dean. Eleven large classrooms - including one capable of accommodating 750 people -, 75 other traditional rooms, ultra-modern buildings... Waiting for other buildings to come. Because the moult is not over yet. On this 120-hectare site, land of what was once "Luxembourg's largest steelworks", straddling the communes of Esch-sur-Alzette and Sanem, the Belval project is indeed intended to be pharaonic. In the long term, we are talking about an investment of 960 million euros. And student life will be just one aspect of it, as Sven Hauser, an external consultant, points out: "When I first came here in 2005, there was nothing but wasteland. It all started with the Rockhal concert hall and according to the prospects, almost 25,000 people could be on the site, where everything is thought out along four lines: living, studying, working and having leisure activities. This demonstrates, if proof were needed, that a university can be a real axis of economic development. "The Agora development company and the Fonds Belval, a public institution in charge of the Cité des Sciences project, are convinced of this.
"Our philosophy? To be a European university.
Next January, it will be the turn of the Faculty of Science, Technology and Communication to migrate to Belval. Another step in the new design of industrial wasteland, where the National Research Fund and Luxinnovation have already packed their bags. Sven Hauser, consultant, continues: "There is more and more talk about the University of Luxembourg. There is something innovative, and the labour market aspect is also part of what is happening today. 
So, yes, it's still a "small" university, but it can be a guarantee of quality. And since it's also a young university, there's not yet the weight of dogmatism. There is still room to develop ideas. "The human relationship has its rightful place here," notes Sylvie Freyermuth, a French professor who has been working at the University of Luxembourg since 2008. The difference with French higher education? "It is very difficult to establish equivalence between university systems that do not operate on the same scale. In the Grand Duchy, the GDP is breaking the ceiling and there is only one university to manage... The difference is there, economic and structural. When I started here, people came to my office and asked me "What kind of computer do you want?"
Title: The big blur in student housing
DATE: 13.04.2016
With the development of the university in Belval, we logically see the arrival of many student housing units built with public and private money. But all this, without much coordination.
The Urban Planning and Sustainable Development Agency for Northern Lorraine (Agape), to which the eleven municipalities of ProSud now belong, has drawn up a very interesting observation: the number of student housing units has exploded in recent years, including beyond the French and even Belgian borders. At present, nearly 2,200 housing units have already been created or are about to be created. That is already a lot.
By setting up the university a few dozen metres from France, it is not surprising that it has a de facto cross-border character. Its international dimension - it is one of the world champions in this field - is only strengthened by this.
By definition, and with few exceptions, students are not (yet) wealthy citizens. The issue of housing is crucial: it is usually the main expense for academics. Even more so in a country where the cost of housing is particularly high.
It is therefore logical to see an ever-increasing supply of housing in the vicinity of the two university centres of Luxembourg and Belval. Until now, the main provider of housing for this specific clientele has been the university itself. Its housing department works with private or institutional landlords (municipalities, housing funds, etc.) to offer rooms, studios or apartments. "The four-year plan that runs until 2017 stipulates that we will have to manage a stock of 1,300 units," explains Marc Rousseau, coordinator of this service.
A constant progression
Today, the university offers 819 housing units, two-thirds of which are in the south of the country. While it appears that the target will probably not be fully met, the total will increase. "The residence Parc du Moulin, in the rue du Canal in Esch-sur-Alzette, will open next September with 63 rooms," he says. And if the government did not think about reassigning the former integrated centre for the elderly (CIPA) in Soleuvre to the reception of asylum seekers rather than students, there would be 124 more rooms on offer.
By the way, do we need that much student accommodation? The occupancy rate of housing units allocated by the university, 96%, tends to prove it. "At the beginning of the academic year, when demand is at its highest, we can't meet all the demands," confirms Marc Rousseau. This simple observation is enough to motivate the enthusiasm of decision-makers. In Esch, Belval and Sanem, the deliveries paid for by public funds follow one another at a steady pace. Differdange is also not hiding its dream of becoming a student town and last November opened its first residence with the Housing Fund (37 housing units). Dudelange and Bettembourg already have a few rooms.
Private investors have also been launched. Just opposite the Maison du savoir (the main building of the university in Belval), the major French construction group Eiffage is building the Galiléo residence, 176 housing units in all. It is the first private developer to launch a project of this type.
"A real groundwork to be done"
Agape, as a cross-border urban planning agency, has taken a fresh look at this type of issue. Without bothering to draw the borders, the agency took a census of the number of existing and planned student housing units. "On a territory between Arlon, Luxembourg, Thionville and Longwy (Editor's note: see the computer graphics below), our Habitat observatory, which is constantly monitoring the situation, has counted 1,356 existing housing units and 842 planned units, i.e. 2,198 in all," calculated its director, Aurélien Biscaut.
Admittedly, not all the rooms are destined to accommodate students from the University of Luxembourg (there are IUTs in Longwy and Thionville, the campus of the University of Liège in Arlon...), but the figure is already considerable.
In their Lorraine Observatory of Higher Education and Student Life published in April 2014, the urban planning agencies of Metz (Aguram) and Nancy (Aduan) noted that in Lorraine only 11.3% of students live in university housing estates or hostels (42% live with their parents, 27% live alone...). The French average is 7.1% of students living in student housing.
In the Grand Duchy alone, Agape has counted 1,593 completed or planned student housing units. Knowing that the university has 6,100 students and that it will not target many more than 7,000 in the medium term, we can see that the supply is and will be very large.
What struck us is that no one has assessed the needs beyond the limits of his country," says Aurélien Biscaut. What struck us was that no one has assessed the needs beyond the limits of his country," says Aurélien Biscaut. "While residences are regularly built, including in France (see box), there is a real groundwork to be done to find out the type of students, the state of the market and the competition. »
If the market is not yet saturated today and demand meets supply, what will it be like in the coming years? If the university were to run out of students for the housing it manages, it would be in big trouble: it is the university that, by contract, guarantees the payment of rent to landlords.
Title: Michel Wurth: "Arcelor Mittal had a historic responsibility in Belval".
DATE: 17.09.2015
Michel Wurth, a historical figure of Arcelor-Mittal Luxembourg and Chairman of the Board of Directors, visited the university campus of Belval at the beginning of the academic year. It was an opportunity to talk exclusively to Le Quotidien about the conversion of wasteland in the 1990s.
1997, the last blast furnace meltdown in Belval, was the end of an all-powerful industrial power. What was the general atmosphere at the time?
Michel Wurth: That moment is engraved in my memory, it was in August 1997. For a century, Luxembourg had been one of the world's top 10 steel producers, with the Belval site at the top of the list. Indeed, we were in the idea of pure industrial power. But this was not the first crisis we had experienced. The steel industry has always been in constant flux. As early as the end of the 1970s, we had to give up the idea of transforming the country's iron, the famous "minette" found in Pétange, for example. The time was serious, the symbol of the end of blast furnaces was very strong. But we had the experience to bounce back.
What actually happened?
We had decided to keep our electric furnaces (Editor's note: it is "enough" to heat imported iron to work it on site) and to launch ourselves into the high-tech steel industry at full throttle. On the other hand, with this strategy, we had divided the workforce (1000 workers work in the steel industry in Beval today, compared to 7500 at the height of the activity in the 1970s). We also left 125 hectares of industrial wasteland. As early as 1997, there was a big brainstorming session in the management team, with a clear focus: "We must give back to the country everything it has given us."
This is how the idea of a new city created ex nihilo on the wasteland was born.
The university was an idea of the Luxembourg State, proposed in 2002. I stress the State's boldness, because our partnership is essential in this conversion. But, to return to the beginnings of the entire Belval project, it was indeed Arcelor-Mittal that pushed towards a large-scale reflection. With a surface area and a history of this size, there was no question of converting the wasteland into a commercial suburban zone, or anything else. As early as 1997, we wanted to redevelop life with housing, technological innovation, green spaces, shops, everything that makes a 21st century district as we know it today, a real city that is destined to grow even more.
Title: Belval continues to grow
DATE: 15.06.2016
Agora presented an assessment of the year 2015 and the avenues of development for the years to come, from Belval to Schifflange.
"We can rejoice that in 15 years we have gone from a vision for Belval to a reality," said Étienne Reuter, President of the development company Agora.
Since the last academic year, the University has finally been established in Belval, which has considerably changed the life of the neighbourhood. "Today, Belval has become a place where people live, work, study, go to shows or take walks. We have succeeded in achieving a flagship project for the development of the south of the country, which links the past and the future, while putting living together at the heart of development," the president stresses.
More than 10,000 occupants
Today, the site is invested by more than 10,000 daily occupants, including 1,500 inhabitants, 4,500 pupils, students or researchers and 4,000 employees. If the arrival of the 2,000 students and 900 employees of the University has undeniably changed the rhythm of the district, it is important to underline that the other axes of development are also being pursued in parallel.
New housing continues to emerge, be it student residences, collective housing or banded houses for families. The knowledge economy remains at the heart of the development strategy: Belval currently hosts nine research centres, not forgetting the start-ups in the business incubator.
"But Belval is also new public places," says Vincent Delwiche, director of Agora. "We now have the Waassertrap, a green corridor open to pedestrians and cyclists, which will eventually link the Sanem town hall to the town hall of Esch-sur-Alzette. In addition, the Belval park connects the different districts to each other without being disturbed by cars."  
In total, more than 10 hectares of green spaces are made available to users. The road infrastructure is also progressing. The last bridge over the RN31 has been demolished, which will allow access to the site from the north to be completed. The Micheville link should also be completed by the end of 2016.
International investors
The result of these efforts, combined with a presence at trade fairs such as Mipim in Cannes, Expo Real in Munich or Realty in Brussels, is that foreign investors are coming to Belval. For example, the French groups Eiffage-Perrard (Résidence Galiléo) and Capelli (Twin Towers mixed-use building) are among the upcoming construction sites, as are the Belgian Atenor (Naos office building) and the German Strabag Real Estate (office building, lot 27 East).
Construction sites in progress
In the meantime, Belval keeps growing. In the fall, the "Innovation Campus" will welcome 1,000 additional students from the Faculty of Law, Economics and Finance, as well as 50 SnT employees at the House of Numbers. Then, at the beginning of 2017, they will be joined by 400 employees from the Faculty of Science, Technology and Communication.
Currently, there are 13 construction sites in progress. "Nine buildings are in private hands and four in public hands. All these new constructions continue to meet our desire for diversity, since housing, offices and university infrastructures are being built," explains Vincent Delwiche. Among the new constructions, we should mention the mixed commercial/office and apartment building Rouden Eck (Tracol Immobilier/CDCL), the residence for seniors Orchidée (Prodomos) or the mixed office and apartment building Southlane Tower II (Luxembourg-capital).
In total, over the next three years, no less than 155,000m2 will be added to the 425,000m2 already in operation, representing an increase of more than 36% compared to the existing stock.
Schifflange, new development centre
In parallel with its action as developer, Agora will also lead the study for the revitalisation of the former ArcelorMittal industrial site in Schifflange, which has been closed down since February, completed by the Schlassgoart estate and several properties of the Rail Fund.
This complex constitutes a land reserve of 62 hectares spread over the communes of Esch-sur-Alzette and Schifflange. The 36-month study, which has already begun, envisages a development that will mix residential, tertiary and community infrastructure and services.